--- SOURCE: http://www.cedarburglightandwater.org/shared-savings-program ---
Energy efficiency can offer big returns for businesses. It lowers utility bills, heightens performance and productivity, and shows a commitment to greener alternatives that your customers and community will appreciate.
We’re giving businesses the upfront capital needed to make qualifying energy-efficiency improvements – up to $50,000. Repayments are made in regular installments on your monthly utility bill. And because your repayment plan is based entirely on the money those energy-efficient improvements will save, your utility bill will stay almost the same.
We’ll help you identify eligible electrical projects, choose the right project for your energy-saving goals and collect the information you’ll need to complete the Shared Savings application process. For complete program details view the Shared Savings Program flyer or send us an email for more information.

--- SOURCE: https://www.cedarburglightandwater.org/explore-ira-home-energy-rebate-programs ---
Ready to upgrade your home’s energy efficiency? Now’s the perfect time! With the launch of the Inflation Reduction Act’s (IRA) Home Energy Rebates in Wisconsin, you can take advantage of significant savings on projects like adding insulation or installing high-efficiency heating and cooling systems. Focus on Energy has been designated to manage and distribute the IRA Home Energy Rebate Programs, which include two main offerings: the Home Efficiency Rebates (HOMES) program and the Home Electrification and Appliance Rebates (HEAR) program. Visit Focus on Energy for complete details and application information.
HOMES Program – Available Now
The HOMES program provides rebates for energy-efficient home improvements, such as adding insulation, upgrading heating and cooling equipment, and air sealing. To participate, a home energy assessment is required, and work must be performed by an IRA registered contractor. The rebate amounts vary based on your household’s income and the anticipated energy savings from the recommended upgrades.
Retroactive HOMES rebates are available for projects initiated on or after August 16, 2022, that meet certain requirements.
HEAR Program – Later in 2024
The upcoming HEAR program will offer rebates for households that install heat pumps and other efficient electric appliances, supporting the move towards a fully electrified home. This program will also cover improvements like insulation, air sealing, and electrical panel and wiring upgrades. It will be available to Wisconsin residents in single-family homes and multifamily buildings with incomes at or below 150% of the Area Median Income.
Even More for Your Home
There are many other opportunities to save on your energy efficiency projects. You might qualify for additional savings through Focus on Energy rebates, Energy Assistance, and various tax credits. In many cases, these savings can be combined for even greater benefits. Use Focus on Energy’s Get Started tool to see which programs you’re eligible for.
Stay tuned for future updates and get ready to maximize your home’s energy efficiency with these valuable rebate programs!

--- SOURCE: https://www.cedarburglightandwater.org/smart-thermostat-incentive ---
Smart thermostats are becoming more popular as an energy saving device. These thermostats are Wi-Fi enabled devices that allow users to monitor and control their HVAC equipment remotely via the internet. Many smart thermostats will learn living patterns and will automatically adjust temperature accordingly via their energy-saving setback features. Click here to to check out our Smart Thermostat FAQs.
Residential and general service electric customers who purchase and install a new, qualified smart thermostat can earn up to a $50 bill credit from Cedarburg Light & Water. Credits are available on a first-come, first-served basis until funds are exhausted for the current calendar year. To receive this incentive please complete the online smart thermostat bill credit form or download a form and include proof of purchase and qualifying model number.
Smart thermostats qualifying for this rebate may also be eligible to receive an additional rebate from Focus on Energy, up to $50. Apply for the Focus on Energy incentive and view their smart thermostat program requirements.

--- SOURCE: https://www.cedarburglightandwater.org/renewable-energy-made-easy ---
Did you know that with Choose Renewable it only takes two or three blocks of renewable energy to power the average home for a month? And, with no equipment to buy or install, there's no need to worry about payback periods or annual maintenance costs.
Find Out How Many Blocks You Need
Use our calculator below to see how many blocks per month you need based on your estimated annual energy usage. Don't know your energy usage? Login to MyAccount to get your up-to-date usage.
Only $2 per month
That’s worth repeating. Our Choose Renewable program starts at only $2 per month. That’s less than a good cup of coffee (and it won’t keep you up at night)! See how Choose Renewable is more affordable than ever.
Renewable energy from the Midwest
At Cedarburg Light and Water, we strive to give you many choices of where your energy comes from. With Choose Renewable, you not only ensure that more of our energy comes from renewable resources, but that it is also generated right here in the Midwest. It adds up to a smaller carbon footprint for you, and a cleaner, greener world for everyone.
Energy from sustainable resources
Choose Renewable uses a socially responsible energy mix of solar, wind and biogas resources to increase your positive impact on the environment, giving you the opportunity to eliminate your use of fossil fuels completely. With Choose Renewable, you can make a difference.
For more information download the Choose Renewable information sheet.
Sign up today
Joining is easy and takes only two minutes. Simply complete the Choose Renewable Sign Up form. You can start (or stop) your participation at any time and you can use as many blocks of renewable energy you like. Get started today!

--- SOURCE: https://www.cedarburglightandwater.org/frequently-asked-questions ---
Where does the renewable energy come from?
As a member of WPPI Energy we have access to a portfolio of renewable energy resources.
Choose Renewable's energy resources come from multiple facilities in the upper Midwest. See the current renewable energy mix here.
How will the renewable energy be delivered to my home or business?
Electricity generated by the renewable resources will be fed into the electric power grid along with all other power sources serving our community. While it isn't possible today to deliver electricity from renewable resources directly to your home or business, your support for the Choose Renewable program will enable us to increase the amount of clean, renewable resources that are a part of our power supply.
Can businesses participate?
Yes. Commercial, industrial and agricultural customers are encouraged to sign up. Please visit our Choose Renewable for Businesses page for details.
What is my extra investment in renewable energy used for?
The money you invest each month in Choose Renewable is used to help lower renewable energy resource costs and increase the amount of electricity generated from clean energy sources. The majority of your Choose Renewable investment is allocated to the development of renewable resources, such as additional solar and wind energy projects. The rest is used to build support for renewable energy among other customers like you, as well as businesses and organizations in our community. Broad support for renewable technologies accross our communities will add up to greater demand, which, in turn will increase the investment made in renewable energy.
