--- SOURCE: http://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/progs/env/solar_in_chicago.html ---
Chicago Solar Express
Welcome to the City of Chicago’s rooftop solar portal!
The City of Chicago is accelerating solar energy, making installation of rooftop solar easier, cheaper, and faster than ever. By cutting fees, and reducing time-in-line, streamlining and standardizing permitting and zoning processes, the City of Chicago has made putting solar on your rooftop as efficient and affordable as possible. Get started:
|
|
For Small Installations(<13.44 kW, a typical house) |
|
For Large Installations(>13.44 kW, commercial, industrial or other building) |
|
Solar Contractor Checklist |
"Solar Chicago" bulk purchase program
On March 17th 2014, Mayor Emanuel announced Chicago was named Earth Hour Capital, winning a grant to help accelerate Chicago's solar market.
In July, the City and partners Cook County, World Wildlife Fund, Environmental Law and Policy Center and the Vote Solar Initiative, launched Solar Chicago, a program to make rooftop solar more affordable than ever for Chicago residents.
Background
In 2012, the City of Chicago and ComEd were awarded a grant under the U.S. Department of Energy’s SunShot Initiative to support solar PV installations by reducing market barriers and soft costs. The grant was sponsored through the Mayor’s office, and the team was comprised of multiple City, industry, utility, non-profit, and institutional stakeholders. Core project partners included West Monroe Partners, Environmental Law & Policy Center, and Illinois Institute of Technology.
As outlined in Mayor Emanuel’s environmental action agenda, Sustainable Chicago 2015, the deployment of these initiatives is a critical part of economic development in Chicago and integral to the City’s goal of becoming the greenest and most sustainable city in America, while giving more choices to residents and businesses.

--- SOURCE: https://www.chicago.gov/content/city/en/progs/env/contractors_followthischecklistforinstallingsolarinchicago.html ---
Solar Contractor Checklist
Follow this checklist for installing solar in Chicago.
Stage |
Complete |
Item |
Review |
Review this entire Solar Contractor’s Checklist | |
Review |
Review “City of Chicago Zoning Policy” to learn about design conformance within Chicago’s zoning ordinances [download the Solar Zoning Policy] | |
Review |
Review permitting instructions in Chicago’s “Photovoltaic Panel Permitting Guidelines” to determine if the system qualifies for “ Easy Permit Process (EPP)” [view the EPP] | |
Review |
Review ComEd’s DG Transparency Map and interconnection rules to determine site conditions and eligibility [view the map] | |
Submission |
If the system qualifies for the “Easy Permit Process”: Complete the application and submission instructions listed on page 2 of the “Photovoltaic Panel Permitting Guidelines” | |
Submission |
If the system qualifies for “Standard Plan Review”: Complete the application and submission instructions listed on page 2 of the “Photovoltaic Panel Permitting Guidelines” | |
Submission |
Complete ComEd Interconnection Application. Learn more at ComEd's website |
| Upon receiving approvals of City permits and ComEd interconnection, begin installation of the system |
Inspection |
Schedule Electrical Inspection with Department of Buildings [schedule here] | |
Inspection |
Once approved, submit City’s Inspection Approval to ComEd |
| Upon receiving Inspection approvals from the City and ComEd, activate the system* |
*During commissioning, verify that system owner has received net metering approval from their retail energy supplier

--- SOURCE: https://www.chicago.gov/content/city/en/progs/env/solar_in_chicago.html ---
Chicago Solar Express
Welcome to the City of Chicago’s rooftop solar portal!
The City of Chicago is accelerating solar energy, making installation of rooftop solar easier, cheaper, and faster than ever. By cutting fees, and reducing time-in-line, streamlining and standardizing permitting and zoning processes, the City of Chicago has made putting solar on your rooftop as efficient and affordable as possible. Get started:
|
|
For Small Installations(<13.44 kW, a typical house) |
|
For Large Installations(>13.44 kW, commercial, industrial or other building) |
|
Solar Contractor Checklist |
"Solar Chicago" bulk purchase program
On March 17th 2014, Mayor Emanuel announced Chicago was named Earth Hour Capital, winning a grant to help accelerate Chicago's solar market.
In July, the City and partners Cook County, World Wildlife Fund, Environmental Law and Policy Center and the Vote Solar Initiative, launched Solar Chicago, a program to make rooftop solar more affordable than ever for Chicago residents.
Background
In 2012, the City of Chicago and ComEd were awarded a grant under the U.S. Department of Energy’s SunShot Initiative to support solar PV installations by reducing market barriers and soft costs. The grant was sponsored through the Mayor’s office, and the team was comprised of multiple City, industry, utility, non-profit, and institutional stakeholders. Core project partners included West Monroe Partners, Environmental Law & Policy Center, and Illinois Institute of Technology.
As outlined in Mayor Emanuel’s environmental action agenda, Sustainable Chicago 2015, the deployment of these initiatives is a critical part of economic development in Chicago and integral to the City’s goal of becoming the greenest and most sustainable city in America, while giving more choices to residents and businesses.

--- SOURCE: https://www.chicago.gov/city/en/depts/dcd/supp_info/solar_zoning_policy.html ---
Solar Zoning Policy
Solar Zoning Policy Introduction
The purpose of the Solar Zoning Policy is to provide guidance for the zoning review of solar photovoltaic (PV) projects in the City of Chicago and to make zoning design requirements transparent for solar PV system applicants.
The policy framework identifies the major zoning districts and establishes solar PV system configuration types.
The zoning district may impact solar PV projects and may limit major design features of proposed systems, such as the size and location of the installation. The configuration type for each solar PV system will have specific design requirements.
Using the zoning district and system configuration type, the City of Chicago has established design considerations required of the solar PV system in order to obtain zoning approval.

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.chicago.gov/content/dam/city/depts/bldgs/general/Solar/102113PVpanelPackage_with_logo.pdf ---
      
 
 
 
 
PHOTOVOLTAIC PANEL 
PERMITTING  
GUIDELINES  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF CHICAGO 
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS 
OCTOBER 21, 2013 
 
 

 
     
 
 
Introduction  
 
10.21 .13 
  
INTRODUCTION 
This document defines procedures intended to facilit ate the 
installation of Photovoltaic Panels (PV panels) in the City of 
Chicago through its Housing and Economic Developmen t and 
Building Departments (DHED & DOB).  The procedures listed 
herein are intended to specifically define the proc ess for 
obtaining a permit for the installation of PV panel s on roofs of 
buildings.  For a range of installations defined in  Section A, the 
time required to obtain a permit will be minimal. 
 
The specific requirements for Zoning, Electrical an d Structural 
are defined.  The applicant must initially define t he specific 
configuration of the PV panel installation (i.e. di mensions and 
location), and ensure that it meets the Zoning requ irements.  
The applicant must then define all of the component s of the 
system and ensure that they meet the Electrical req uirements.  
Finally, the applicant must determine if the existi ng roof 
structure can carry the additional dead, wind and p ossibly 
snow loads due to the new PV panels. 
 
The procedures listed herein are for existing roof structures 
consisting of concrete, steel or wood.  For steel a nd concrete 
roof structures an architect or structural engineer , licensed in 
the State of Illinois, is required to evaluate the adequacy of the 
existing structure and list their findings on the a ppropriate 
forms included herein.  Their analysis must be made  using 
accepted engineering practice, standards of the ind ustry and 
the requirements of the Chicago Building Code.  The ir 
calculations must also be provided. 
 
For wood construction, the information included in this 
document can be used for the evaluation of the exis ting wood 
roof framing.  Tables are provided, in the Appendix , to assist in 
determining the maximum span of joists or rafters g iven certain 
loading conditions.  For conditions that are beyond  the 
applicability of the span tables provided, analyses  must be 
performed that conform to the requirements of the C hicago 
Building Code, referenced standards (such as the Na tional 
Design Specification), and accepted structural engi neering 
practice.  The information listed in the span table s is provided 
for convenience only.  It is the responsibility of the owner, 
contractor, architect and/or structural engineer to  ensure that 
all members and connections are adequate for their intended 
purpose and meet the requirements of the Chicago Bu ilding 
Code. 
 
For new construction, major building remodeling or building 
additions, the installation of PV panels is a part of that 
construction.  Similarly, the building permit for P V panel 
installation is a part of that required for the ove rall construction 
project.  The forms/tables included herein must be completed 
and submitted with the other documents, drawings an d 
calculations required for the permit application fo r the project 
as a whole. 
 
For projects that include only the installation of PV panels and 
where the PV panels will be hung or mounted onto bu ilding 
walls, mounted as bris-de-solei awnings above windo ws, 
mounted on auxiliary building such as garage roofs or storage 
shed roofs, or mounted on ground structures such as  poles, 
pylons and pedestals, these Guidelines do not apply .  These 
projects will be evaluated, during the permit revie w, using the 
Standard Plan Review process for compliance with zo ning, 
electrical and structural requirements. 
 
 
 
 
CONDITIONS 
 
The information, procedures and provisions listed he rein are 
based upon the applicable sections of the Chicago M unicipal 
Code and consideration of the of the life-safety co nditions 
unique to Photovoltaic Panel installations.  As add itional 
information becomes available or the specific requi rements of 
DHED or DOB change, the information, procedures and  
provisions listed herein may be revised.  The DHED & DOB 
reserve the right to modify or change any portion o f this 
document at any time.  To ensure that the most curr ent 
provisions are being addressed, the user is advised  to check 
the City of Chicago Website for the latest edition of this 
document. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
  
SECTION A: PROCESS 1 
Section A provides a list of the entire process for the 
installation of PV panels.  
SECTION B: GENERAL  4 
General description or intent of PV panel review process.  
SECTION C: ZONING  7 
Section C includes specific zoning requirements for PV panel 
installations.  
SECTION D: ELECTRICAL   9 
Section D includes specific electrical requirements for PV 
panel installations.  
SECTION E: STRUCTURAL  10  
Section E includes specific structural requirements for PV 
panel installations. 
APPENDIX 1: SPAN TABLES  A1  
The Span Tables of Section D are provided to assist in 
determining the adequacy of the existing wood framing with 
the addition of PV panels.  
APPENDIX 2: EXAMPLE DESIGN A9 
The Sample Designs of Section F are to illustrate the process 
incorporate the information of Sections A through D to 
complete the application.  
 
 
 
      
 
 1
Process  
A 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10.21.13 
 
The PV panel design, permitting and construction should include the following process.  
 
STEP 1: SELECT INSTALLER AND SYSTEM 
SYSTEM 
Select a licensed contractor/installer that is qual ified to assist you in determining the optimum PV p anel system for your needs.  Obtain 
information regarding other similar projects that t hey have done.  In addition, obtain references that  can be contacted to confirm the adequacy of 
their other installations.  In addition, if possible, view these projects. 
Determine the size and manufacturer(s) of the PV system to be installed.  Determine whether the proposed system complies with the Zoning 
requirements.  Also determine how the PV system is to be attached and supported on your building. 
 
STEP 2: SELECT A DESIGN PROFESSIONAL 
BUILDING STRUCTURE 
Depending upon the type of roof structure and PV panel installation, a review of the existing structure by an architect or structural engineer may 
be required.  If so, obtain the services of an architect or structural engineer licensed in the State of Illinois to examine and determine if the 
structure is adequate to support the additional gravity and wind loads due to the new PV panel system.  They should prepare calculations and 
drawings as necessary to show adequacy of the existing roof structure or how it must be modified. 
To find a suitable design professional, one of the following professional associations can be contacte d for recommendations.  In addition, the 
Internet or the telephone directory can be used. 
 
• Association of Licensed Architects (ALA) (847) 382-0630 (www.ALAtoday.org) 
• American Institute of Architects Chicago (AIA Chicago)  (312) 670-7770 ( www.aiachicago.org )  
• Structural Engineers Association of Illinois (SEAOI) (312) 372-4198 (www.seaoi.org) 
 
After finding several likely candidates, interview the design professionals. During the interviews wit h potential design professionals, obtain 
information regarding other similar projects that t hey have done.  In addition, obtain references that  can be contacted to confirm the adequacy of 
the services provided on these other projects.  In addition, if possible, view these projects. 
 
 
STEP 3: OBTAIN A BUILDING PERMIT 
 
PERMIT PROCESS 
 
Two Department of Building processes are available for the permitting of PV panel installations on existing  buildings.  They are the Easy Permit 
Process (EPP) and Standard Plan Review (SPR).  PV panel installation projects that qualify for the Easy Permit Process must comply with the 
requirements listed on page 4 of this document.  For installations that do not comply with the requirements of the Easy Permit Process, including 
those with an output of greater than 13.44 KW, the Standard Plan Review process must be used.   
 
For PV panels installed as a part of new construction, major building remodeling or building additions, the permit must be obtained as a part of (or 
in conjunction with) that construction process.   
 
Where the PV panels will be hung or mounted on to building walls, mounted as bris-de-solei awnings above windows, mounted on auxiliary 
building such as garage roofs or storage shed roofs, or mounted on ground structures such as poles, pylons and pedestals, the projects will be 
evaluated using the Standard Plan Review process for compliance with zoning, electrical and structural requirements.  These Guidelines do not 
apply to these types of PV panel installations.  
 
For further information regarding the permit processes the following individuals may be contacted: 
 
• Easy Permit Process – debra.vallone@cityofchicago.org   
• Standard Plan Review – ed.doherty@cityofchicago.org  
• Green Permit Program / Developer Services – sophie.martinez@cityofchicago.org   
 
1 
SELECT AN 
INSTALLER & 
DETERMINE SIZE 
OF SYSTEM 2 
SELECT A DESIGN 
PROFESSIONAL 
(IF APPLICABLE) 3 
APPLY FOR A 
PERMIT 4 
INSTALL SYSTEM 
5 
REQUEST 
INSPECTIONS & 
PROJECT 
CLOSEOUT  
 
      
 
 2
Process  
A 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10.21.13 
 
STEP 3: CONT’D 
EXISTING BUILDINGS 
EASY PERMIT PROCESS (EPP) STANDARD PLAN REVIEW (SPR) 
 
For PV panel projects that meet the EPP requirement s, the items listed 
below should be followed to obtain a building permit: 
 
1) Complete the General, Zoning and Electrical tabl es/forms 
included herein. 
2) Complete the Structural tables/forms included he rein. 
3) Provide drawings and calculations completed and stamped by 
a licensed architect or licensed structural engineer to show the 
adequacy of the existing structure to support the P V panels.  
(If the PV panels are to be installed on limited ty pes of wood 
frame structures, as defined herein, drawings and c alculations 
are not required.) 
4) Provide photographs of the exterior of the build ing and the roof 
structure.  (If necessary create inspection opening s to 
document the roof structure.) 
5) Provide PV panel manufacturer’s technical inform ation (cut 
sheets). 
6) Provide a completed Easy Permit Application. 
7) Provide a completed Electrical Permit Applicatio n. 
8) Provide an Aldermanic Letter of Support to waive  the 10 day 
waiting period. 
9) The completed package is to be submitted at City  Hall, 121 N. 
LaSalle Street, 9 th  Floor, EPP desk (312-744-8678) by a 
licensed general/installation contractor, only. The  contractor 
must be in good standing with the City of Chicago.   
10) The submittal package will be reviewed for comp leteness and 
accuracy using an abbreviated process.  A separate Zoning 
review will not be made.  The DOB review typically will not 
include Electrical and Structural disciplines.  The  DOB will rely 
on the applicant to ensure that the design and inst allation of 
the system complies with all Zoning and Chicago Bui lding 
Code requirements.   
11) After the permit fee of $275 is paid, a buildin g permit will be 
issued.   
12) Projects may be audited. 
 
 
For PV panel projects that are to be submitted usin g the SPR process, 
the items listed below should be followed to obtain a building permit: 
 
1) The General, Zoning and Electrical tables/forms included 
herein must be completed by the licensed architect or licensed 
structural engineer of record for the project. 
2) The Structural tables/forms included herein must  be completed 
by the licensed architect or licensed structural en gineer of 
record for the project. 
3) Provide drawings and calculations prepared and s tamped by 
the licensed architect or licensed structural engin eer of record 
for the project to show the adequacy of the existing structure to 
support the PV panels. 
4) Provide photographs of the exterior of the build ing and the roof 
structure.  (If necessary create inspection opening s to 
document the roof structure.) 
5) Provide PV panel manufacturer’s technical inform ation (cut 
sheets).  
6) The PV Panel or Solar Contractor must be listed as the 
General Contractor for the project. 
7) The licensed architect or licensed structural en gineer of record 
for the project must submit the completed Photovolt aic Panel 
Permitting Guidelines, Permit application and Elect rical Permit 
application using the SPR process of the Department  of 
Buildings through the DOB E-Plan / ProjectDox Electronic Plan 
submission system. 
8) The submittal package will be reviewed for compl eteness, 
accuracy and compliance with the Standard Plan Revi ew 
process.  The administrative and structural reviews  will be 
performed on an accelerated basis by specifically d esignated 
DOB staff. 
9) After the permit fee is paid, a building permit will be issued. 
10) The permit fee for the SPR process can be deter mined using 
the Permit Fee Calculator at www.cityofchicago.org and is a 
minimum of $375. 
 
 
 
 
STEP 4: INSTALLATION 
INSTALL 
The installation must be performed by a licensed contractor that is experienced in PV panel installations.  The contractor must be or use a 
licensed electrician for all electrical work. 
Wherever the existing roofing or roof membrane is penetrated, it must be sealed to prevent water infiltration.  For sloped roofs, manufacturers 
make special devices with flashing to fit into or under the shingles.  For flat roofs, a roofing contractor will be required to flash penetrations 
through the membrane. 
 
 
 
STEP 5: REQUEST INSPECTION 
SYSTEM INSPECTION 
After the installation is completed, contact the DO B for inspections, including an electrical inspecti on.  An owner or a contractor can request that 
an inspection be scheduled.  The request for a Fina l Inspection should be made online at www.cityofchi cago.org/buildings .  An electrical 
inspection is required to be connected to Commonwea lth Edison’s electrical grid.  The electrical contr actor is required to send the DOB electrical 
inspector’s form to Commonwealth Edison. 
 
      
 
 3
Process  
A 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10.21.13 
 
 
NEW CONSTRUCTION, MAJOR BUILDING REMODELING OR BUIL DING ADDITIONS 
 
For projects where PV panels will be installed on a  building rooftop as one component of new construct ion, major building remodeling or a building 
addition, the five step process described above generally does not apply.  In addition to design, contracting and permitting for projects of this sort, the 
items listed below should be considered or followed as appropriate. 
 
1) The use of these Guidelines for PV panel design and installation will provide a consistent understa nding of the required information, 
procedures and structural loads. 
2) The General, Zoning and Electrical tables/forms included herein must be completed by the licensed a rchitect or structural engineer of 
record for the project. 
3) The Structural tables/forms included herein must  be completed by the licensed architect or structural engineer of record for the project. 
4) Provide drawings and calculations prepared and s tamped by the licensed architect or structural engi neer to show the adequacy of the new 
structure to support the PV panels.  These drawings  and calculations will likely be a part of the docu ments created and submitted for the 
project as a whole. 
5) The permit for the work, including the PV panels , will be reviewed by Zoning/Planning and will be r eviewed by all disciplines (Architectural, 
Fire, Plumbing, Electrical, etc.) as a part of the process for the Standard Plan Review (SPR) or Developer Services (DS). 
6) The installer will likely not be a separate enti ty but a subcontractor to the overall project. 
7) The electrical contractor will be a subcontracto r to the overall project. 
 
 
 
SOLAR PANELS NOT INSTALLED ON BUILDING ROOFTOPS / N OT INSTALLED ON THE PRIMARY BUILDING  
 
For projects that include only the installation of PV solar panels and where the solar panels will be hung or mounted on to building walls, mounted as 
bris-de-solei awnings above windows, mounted on auxiliary building such as garage roofs or storage shed roofs, or mounted on ground structures 
such as poles, pylons and pedestals the five step process described above does not apply.  In addition to design, contracting and permitting for 
projects of this sort, the items listed below should be followed. 
 
1) The Solar Contractor must be listed as a General  Contractor for the project. 
2) The Licensed Design professional must submit pla ns, structural calculations, product literature and the permit application and electrical 
permit for the solar panel installation electronically  to the Department of Buildings Standard Plan Review process using the DOB E Plan / 
Project DOX Electronic Plan Submission System.  
3) The project cannot use  these Guidelines as they are only intended to be used for the installation of photovoltaic panels on a building 
rooftop. 
4) The project will receive a full administrative, zoning and structural plan review. 
 
 
     
 
 4
General  
B 
SECTI ON 
PAGE 
10. 21.13 
  
The following are the requirements for the Easy Permit Process and Standard Plan Review for PV panel permit applications. 
DEPARTMENT / 
DICIPLINE CATEGORY REQUIREMENTS 
PERMIT PROCESS 
EPP SPR 
Department of 
Housing & 
Economic 
Development 
and Department 
of Buildings 
 
(DHED & DOB) 
Landmark System is located on property that is NOT  zoned as a designated 
Landmark or located in a Landmark District X  
Panel Location System is installed on a defined, permitted rooftop. If in the residential 
sector, the System must be located on the property’s principal structure. X X 
Panel Height 
If the system is being ins talled on a flat rooftop, no part of the system 
may exceed 9 feet in overall height, or extend 5 feet above the building 
parapet, whichever is less. 
X X 
If being installed on an inclined roof, System must be attached, mounted 
parallel with the roof, and the top surface of the collector shall not 
extend any further than 12 inches from the roof surface at any point. No 
portion of the solar collectors shall extend beyond the ridgeline of the 
roof at any point. (Also see Fire below.) 
X X 
Policy 
Compliance 
System must adhere to all of the guidelines of the City of Chicago's 
Solar Zoning Policy and will not require a formal Zoning review. X  
System must adhere to all of the guidelines of the City of Chicago's 
Solar Zoning Policy.  X 
Allowed 
Occupancies 
All buildings, subject to Zoning review  X 
All building except those listed below X  
Exceptions 
Buildings classified under Class C, “Assembly Units” (per 
CBC 13-56-080 classification of occupancy definition). X  
Institutional Facilities (e.g. nursing home or hospital) X  
Occupied or habitable roofs (i.e. roofs with penthouses or 
decks) X  
FIRE Roof Surface 
Edge Distance 
PV panels shall be installed a minimum of 3 feet from the boundaries or 
edges of flat roofs (i.e. roofs with a maximum slope of 1.5:12).  PV panels 
shall be installed a minimum of 3 feet from the ridges of gable and hip 
roofs and a minimum of 3 feet from the ends of gable roofs.   Where 
installed on hip roofs, the PV panel layout shall include a 3 foot wide 
clear path from the eave to the ridge.  PV panels shall be installed a 
minimum of 18 inches from hips or valleys where panels are installed on 
both sides of the hips or valleys; otherwise, where PV panels are 
installed on only one side of a hip or valley they may be installed to the 
edge of the hip or valley. 
X X 
DOB - 
ELECTRICAL 
Size System’s inverter output is 13.44 kW or less (maximum size for 70-amp 
breaker) per roof X  
Electrical 
Components 
System’s electrical components comply with the Chicago Electric Code 
(18-27, Article 690), and application has been certified by a Licensed 
Electrician in good standing with the City of Chicago 
X X 
Primary electrical equipment (panels and inverters) is listed and labeled 
from a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (18-27-110.2) and 
installed per manufacturer’s instructions 
X X 
DOB - 
STRUCTURAL 
Mounting 
Structure 
System’s mounting structure is an engineered product designed to 
mount PV modules to rooftops, and is adequate to support all gravity 
and wind loads. 
X X 
PV Panel Dead 
Load 
System’s distributed system weight (PV equipment and framing) is less 
than or equal to 5 lb/ft 2 (psf).  Ballasted systems do not  qualify for the 
Easy Permit Process. 
X  
 
     
 
 5
General  
B 
SECTI ON 
PAGE 
10. 21.13 
  
DOB - 
STRUCTURAL 
Existing Roof 
Structure 
Provide the existing building roof structure components, as listed in the 
Structural Tables.  Provide photographs of rafters/joists (with tape 
measure) that uniquely indentify that the framing is for that building. 
X X 
Building Height 
Maximum building height is less than or equal to 55 feet X  
Maximum building height is less than or equal to that indicated in the 
applicable figures of ASCE 7-05 and SEAOC PV2-2012  X 
Wind Pressure 
Requirements 
The determination of the design wind pressure that impinges on the PV 
panels must be based upon the requirements of the Chicago Building 
Code, ASCE 7-05, Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and other 
Structures of the American Society of Civil Engineers and SEAOC PV2-
2012, Wind Design For Low-Profile Solar Photovoltaic Arrays on Flat 
Roofs of the Structural Engineers Association of California.  The 
applicable provisions of the CBC and the applicable standards depend 
upon the dimensions of the building, roof slope, PV panel angle, PV 
panel location on the roof, etc. 
 
For certain configurations of PV panels, neither the CBC nor ASCE 7-05 
provide the appropriate (or applicable) wind load provisions.  For those 
configurations, the DOB is accepting the use of SEAOC PV2-2012, Wind 
Design For Low-Profile Solar Photovoltaic Arrays on Flat Roofs of the 
Structural Engineers Association of California, for the determination of 
wind loads. 
X X 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 6
General  
B 
SECTI ON 
PAGE 
10. 21.13 
  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
 
The following general information and certification is required for all PV Panel installations. 
 
BUILDING INFORMATION:  
BUILDING ADDRESS  
BUILDING HEIGHT   Not to exceed 55 feet to be considered 
within the Easy Permit Process. 
BUILDING MAXIMUM LENGTH  The maximum plan dimension of the 
building. 
BUILDING WIDTH  The minimum plan dimension of the 
building. 
ROOF SLOPE   
The slope must be 1.5:12 (7 degrees) 
or less to be considered flat.              
(0 degrees = flat.) 
 
 
 
 
 
We, as the Property Owner and General Contractor, c ertify that the information provided herein and the  statements made are true, and 
understand that the Department of Buildings has the  right to revocation and penalties (as listed in th e Easy Permit Application 
certification statements) in the event that the sta tements made regarding this criteria information ha ve been falsified or is determined to 
be inaccurate. 
 
 
_________________________________ _________________ ________________ _____________ 
Property Owner’s Name Property Owner’s Signature   Date 
 
 
_________________________________ _________________ ________________ _____________ 
General Contractor’s Name General Contractor Signat ure   Date 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
 7
Zoning  
C 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13 
 
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
Provide the following zoning information for all PV Panel permit applications.  The PV panel installati on must comply with all of the 
zoning requirements to be accepted under the Easy Permit Process.  
ZONING INFORMATION: 
CATEGORY DATA ZONING REQUIRMENTS 
LANDMARK 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on a national or state 
landmark?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be used.) 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on a city designated 
landmark?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be used.) 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on located in a code 
orange or red landmark district?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be 
used.) 
LOCATION ON 
BUILDING  
Define specifically, where on the building the PV panels are to be located.  
(PV panels must be installed on a defined, permitted rooftop. If in the 
residential zoning district, the PV panels must be located on the property’s 
principal structure.) 
TOP PANEL 
SURFACE 
ABOVE FLAT 
ROOF DECK 
Upper or Top Edge  State the dimensions that the upper and lower edges of the sloped PV panel 
extend above the roof surface.  (If installed on a flat rooftop, no part of the PV 
panel system may exceed 9 feet in overall height, or extend 5 feet above the 
building parapet, whichever is less.) Lower or Bottom 
Edge  
TOP PANEL 
SURFACE 
ABOVE 
SLOPED ROOF 
DECK 
 
State the dimension between the top of the roof surface and the top of the PV 
panel.  (If installed on an inclined or sloped roof, the PV panels must be 
attached to and mounted parallel with the roof.  The top surface of the PV 
panels shall not be more than 12 inches from the roof deck at any point.  No 
portion of the PV panels shall extend above the ridgeline of the roof at any 
point.)  
POLICY 
COMPLIANCE 
 
       Yes      No 
Does the PV panel system adhere to all of the guidelines of the City of 
Chicago's Solar Zoning Policy? 
 
  
   
  
  
 
      
 8
Zoning  
C 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13 
 
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
Provide drawings below, or on a separate sheet, to clearly show the location of the PV panels.  (See example.) 
BUILDING ADDRESS:  Required Information: 
• Roof Plane with Overall Dimensions 
• Location of Roof Plane on Building 
• PV Panels (Show Individual Panels and Rows) 
• Edge Distance Between PV Panels and Roof 
Edge 
• End Distance Between PV Panels and Roof Edge 
 
• Distance Between Rows of PV Panels 
• Distance Between Adjacent PV Panels 
• Side or End Elevation of Building Showing Roof 
Slope and PV Panel Locations 
• Show North arrow 
 
OWNER:  
DRAWN BY:  DATE:  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
 
 
      
 
 9
Electrical  
D 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13 
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
Applications for all PV panel permits must include the following information and meet the listed electrical requirements.  
ELECTRICAL INFORMATION: 
REQUIRED 
INFORMATION  DATA REQUIREMENTS 
INVERTER 
TYPE  Manufacturer and model number 
INVERTER 
OUTPUT  
System’s inverter output is 13.44 kW or less (maximum 
size for 70-amp breaker) for Easy Permit Process 
PV PANEL TYPE  Manufacturer and model number 
PV PANEL 
OUTPUT  Maximum watt output per panel 
NUMBER OF 
PANELS  Total number of panels in installation 
TOTAL PV 
PANEL OUTPUT  Multiply the number of panels times the output per panel 
ELECTRICAL 
CONTRACTOR  
Must be a licensed electrician in good standing with the 
City of Chicago and has certified PV panel system 
installation.   
COMPONENT 
COMPLIANCE 
 
    Yes      No 
Do all electrical components comply with the Chicago 
Electrical Code (18-27, Article 690)? Yes/No. 
 
    Yes      No  
Are all electrical components (or equipment), including 
panels and inverters, listed and labeled by a Nationally 
Recognized Testing Laboratory (as per 18-27-110.2) and 
have all components been installed as per the 
manufacturer’s instructions? Yes/No. 
 
Provide below, or on a separate sheet, a one line electrical diagram of PV panel electrical system. 
 
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
Address:  Permit No.: 
  
  
 
      
 10
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
The structural portion of these guidelines provides a process for determining whether the existing structure can support the additional 
loads due to the photovoltaic (PV) panels.  The additional loads include the weight of the panels and their support structure, wind loads 
and possible snow loads. 
 
The following list describes the Structural Process and requirements for obtaining a permit.  All of the listed items must be addressed to 
use the Easy Permit Process for obtaining a building permit.  For all other permit processes, all of the listed items, except No. 1 must be 
addressed or complied with. 
 
PV PANEL – STRUCTURAL PROCESS:  
1) The building that the PV panels are to be mounte d on must be an allowed occupancy.  (See pp. 4, 5 & 7) 
2) Establish the desired PV panel generating capaci ty and needed equipment.  (See pp. 9 & 14) 
3) Determine the location and layout of the PV pane l installation on the roof.  Roof panels must not be located within the corner 
zone of the roof. (See p. 12)  Edge distances and access must also be maintained as required by the Fire Department.              
(See p. 4) 
4) Provide building information.  (See p. 6) 
5) Determine required wind load on PV panels and su pport framing.  (See pp. 11 - 13)  Complete the wind load table/form.  (See pp. 
15 - 17) 
6) Determine if mounting hardware can withstand PV panel gravity and wind loads.  Revise hardware as necessary.  (See p. 18) 
7) Obtain and provide roof structure information.  (Include photographs of the roof framing.)  (See pp. 2 & 19 – 23) 
8) Determine and provide roof dead load based upon structure information.  (See pp. 19 – 23) 
9) Establish whether the PV panel system is to be m echanically attached or ballasted.  The PV panel system can only be ballasted 
on a flat roof with adequate structural load capacity.  (See pp. 19 – 23) 
10) For a mechanically attached PV panel system, de termine if roof structure can support the additional PV panel system dead load.  
For concrete or steel construction, a licensed architect or structural engineer must determine the adequacy of the existing roof 
structure.  For conventional wood framing, the Span Tables included herein may be used, if applicable.  (See Appendix 1) 
11) If ballasted, determine if the roof structure c an support the additional ballast weight.  An architect or structural engineer, licensed 
in the State of Illinois, will be required to determine the adequacy of the existing roof structure to support the additional dead 
load.  The adequacy of the existing roof structure to support the additional loads will be determined by calculation using 
accepted engineering practice, standards of the industry and the requirements of the Chicago Building Code.  Stamped and 
signed calculations shall be submitted with the completed application.  Permit applications for ballasted PV Panel installations 
cannot use the Easy Permit Process. 
12) Where the services of an architect or structura l engineer are required, they must complete the Certification Statement at the end 
of this section and submit it with the completed application. 
13) Submit completed application. 
 
 
      
 11
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
The additional gravity loads due to the PV panels ar e determined by the actual weight of the panels and  the support frames.  If the 
panels are to be ballasted to resist wind loads, th en the additional gravity load is increased by the panels, support frames and ballast.  
Where the PV panels are to be installed on an exist ing roof, it must be determined if the existing roo f structure is adequate to support 
those loads.   Whether the PV panels are to be inst alled on existing or new construction, the provisions listed in the following table must 
be considered in the determination of the wind loads. 
 
REQUIRED WIND LOAD:  
The required wind load for structures constructed in the City of Chicago is defined in the Chicago Building Code Section 16(13-52-
310) 
For building or other structure configurations not listed in the CBC, a resource document is referenced for the determination of wind 
loads.  That resource document is ANSI A58.1.  It has been updated and the subsequent edition known as ASCE 7-05 is recognized 
by the DOB. 
For certain configurations of PV panels, neither the CBC nor ASCE 7-05 provide the appropriate (or applicable) wind load 
provisions.  For those configurations, the DOB is accepting the use of SEAOC PV2-2012, Wind Design For Low-Profile Solar 
Photovoltaic Arrays on Flat Roofs of the Structural Engineers Association of California, for the determination of wind loads.  
www.seaoc.org/bookstore/ 
The primary determinants of the appropriate Building Code wind load provisions for PV panels are the slope of the roof that the 
panels are mounted on and the angle of the panels to the roof surface.  The overall configuration of the building also affects the 
determination of the appropriate wind loads.  
Of greatest concern regarding the wind loads on PV panels is uplift or the ability of wind to lift or pull the panels off of the roof.  In 
general however, the underlying roof structure is considered to be adequate to resist the uplift pressure providing that 1.5 x Wind 
Pressure does not exceed the dead load of the roof, framing, ceiling and the PV panel system. 
SLOPED ROOF 
The PV panels are necessarily mechanically attached to the sloped roof surface.  The panels are parallel to the 
existing roof surface and are mounted a few inches (or a maximum of 4 inches) off of the roof. (clear distance) 
The wind pressure on the panels is determined from CBC Section 13-52-310(b)  or ASCE 7 for Components and 
Cladding.  (See discussion at the top of p. 15) 
The necessary panel anchorage is determined by the design wind pressure (or load) and capacity of 
manufacturer’s mounting devices. 
The adequacy of the existing roof structure to support the weight of the panels must be determined from a 
structural evaluation.  For simple span wood joists and rafters, the Span Tables included in Appendix 1 may be 
used.  
FLAT ROOF 
The PV panels can be either weighted down (ballasted) or mechanically attached to the building structure to 
resist wind loads.  If the PV panels are to be ballasted, a licensed architect or licensed structural engineer must 
determine if the existing structure can support the additional dead load.  
If the PV panels are to be mechanically attached, the structure must also be checked to determine if it can 
support the additional, but much lower, dead load.  For simple span wood joists and rafters, the Span Tables 
included in Appendix 1 may be used, if applicable. 
For mechanically attached PV panels that are parallel to the roof surface, the wind pressure is determined from 
the CBC Section 13-52-310(b)  or ASCE 7 for Components and Cladding.  (See discussion at the top of p. 15) 
For ballasted or mechanically attached PV panels that are not parallel to the (horizontal) roof surface but are 
less than or equal to 35 degrees from the roof surface, the wind pressures are to be determined from ASCE 7 
and SEAOC PV2-2012.  For buildings with a plan dimension of less than 2a pv  as defined in SEAOC PV2-2012, 
the wind pressures are to be determined for an edge zone and a maximum normalized wind area of 20 sq. ft. 
regardless of the calculated area.  The wind velocity pressure on the panels is determined from the ASCE 7-05.  
The pressure coefficients are determined from SEAOC PV2-2012.  
For ballasted or mechanically attached PV panels that are not parallel to the (horizontal) roof surface and 
exceed the stated limitations of SEAOC PV2-2012, wind tunnel testing unique to the project will be required to 
determine the appropriate wind loads. 
 
      
 12
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
For sloped PV panels that are ballasted or mechanically attached and where the highest edges of the panels 
are less than or equal to 1.5 feet above the roof surface, snow drifting due to the panels need not be 
considered.  Snow loads and drifting need only be considered as if the panels did not exist on the roof except 
that the snow load in the field of the roof cannot be less than 25 psf.  Wind loads must be considered as 
described above. 
For sloped PV panels that are ballasted or mechanically attached and where the highest edges of the panels 
exceed 1.5 feet above the roof surface, the wind uplift and lateral pressure must be considered with the snow 
drifting that can be caused by the panels.  A licensed architect or licensed structural engineer must determine 
the dead, wind and snow loads due to the PV panels.  A licensed architect or licensed structural engineer must 
also determine if the existing structure can support those loads. 
 
 
The determination of the wind pressure is related to  the location of the panels on the roof.  The wind pressures are known to be more 
significant at the edges of a roof and still more s ignificant at the corners of a roof surface.  This drawing illustrates a PV panel layout on 
a wood framed roof surface.  The layout illustrates  the edge and end distances as well the support rai ls and attachment locations. The 
roof surface could be a flat roof or one side of a gable roof.  The edge and corner zones relating to wind pressures are also shown.  
(This drawing is not  to be used to illustrate the location of the panels as required in the Zoning portion of these Guidelines.) 
 
 
 
RAFTER / ROOF JOIST (TYP.) 
PHOTOVOLTAIC PANEL 
SUPPORT RAIL 
RAIL ATTACHMENT 
SUPPORT SPACING 
WOOD ROOF SURFACE 
EDGE ZONE 
EDGE DISTANCE 
EDGE DISTANCE 
CORNER ZONE 
NO SCALE - FOR REFERENCE ONLY 
 
      
 13
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
For a mechanically attached PV panel, the wind load is resisted by bolts, clips, frames and the building structure to which it is attached.  
Each component of the anchorage system is designed to resist the design loads.  The capacity of each c omponent is determined by 
design to be in conformance with applicable standards and they are designed to have an ultimate capaci ty that is in excess of the loads 
that they are to carry in use on the building.  The  ratio of the ultimate capacity to the in-place loa d is known as the factor of safety.  The 
ultimate capacity of any component is not necessarily its in-place load capacity and the factor of safety is incorporated into the design to 
accommodate reductions in strength due to material imperfections, dimensional inaccuracies, overloads during construction and 
overloads after construction.  Factors of safety ar e routinely incorporated into the design of buildin gs and their components to ensure 
reliable structural performance. 
 
As with a mechanically attached PV panel, wind load  on a Ballasted PV panel is resisted by bolts clips  and frames, but is not attached 
to the supporting structure. It is simply set upon a flat roof and held in place with weights or balla st.  The amount of ballast must be 
sufficient to resist the uplift, sliding and overtu rning forces created by the wind.  In a fashion sim ilar to the bolts and clips of a 
mechanically attached system, the amount of ballast  must be designed to include a factor of safety.  T he required factor of safety is 
provided in the CBC and ASCE 7-05 as listed below.  For Strength Design in ASCE 7, the load factor is provided, not the factor of 
safety, but effectively creates the same result.  T he quantity of ballast is equivalent to that requir ed to resist the factored wind load, but 
does not need to be in excess of that amount. 
 
FACTOR OF SAFETY : 
BUILDING CODE 
SECTION 
FACTOR OF SAFETY / 
LOAD COMBINATION DESCRIPTION 
CBC Section 13-52-
300 1.5 
Overturning. The overturning moment due to the wind load shall not exceed two -thirds 
of the moment of stability of the building or other structure due to the dead load only, 
unless the building or other structure is anchored so as to resist the excess overturning 
moment without exceeding the allowable stresses for materials used. 
Sliding. When the total resisting force due to friction is insufficient to prevent sliding, 
the building or other structure shall be anchored to withstand the excess sliding force 
without exceeding the allowable stresses for the materials used. Anchors provided to 
resist overturning moment may also be considered as providing resistance to sliding. 
ASCE 7-05 Section 
1.3.5  
Counteracting Structural Acti ons. All structural members and systems, and all 
components and cladding in a building or other structure, shall be designed to resist 
forces due to earthquake and wind, with consideration of overturning, sliding, and uplift, 
and continuous load paths shall be provided for transmitting these forces to the 
foundation. Where sliding is used to isolate the elements, the effects of friction between 
sliding elements shall be included as a force. Where all or a portion of the resistance to 
these forces is provided by dead load, the dead load shall be taken as the minimum 
dead load likely to be in place during the event causing the considered forces. 
ASCE 7-05 Section 
2.3.2 
1.2D + 1.6W + L + 0.5S 
0.9D + 1.6W 
Basic load combinations for Strength Design, where D = dead load, W = wind load, L = 
live load and S = snow load 
 
 
      
 14
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
 
The Tables/Forms included on pages 14 through 24 of this Section must be completed for all PV panel permit application processes.   
The general information regarding the proposed PV panel installation is to be provided on this first Table/Form.   
PV PANEL & SUPPORT FRAME : 
PV PANEL DATA REMARKS 
MANUFACTURER  Manufacturer and product number 
PANEL WATTAGE  Maximum watt output per panel 
NUMBER OF 
PANELS 
Number of 
Rows Number per Row 
Number of panels per group or roof surface 
  
PANEL 
DIMENSIONS 
Length Width Area 
Length & width (in.) and area (sq. ft.) 
   
PANEL WEIGHT  Weight of individual panel (lbs) 
PANEL SPACING 
Sides Top Bottom The side spacing is the space between adjacent panels in a row.  The 
top and bottom spacing is the distance between rows of panels.  If 
there is no row above or below, state not applicable (N/A).    
TYPE OF 
SUPPORT RAILS  Manufacturer and part or model number 
ANCHOR BOLTS 
OR FASTENERS  Type and size and/or manufacturer’s part number 
SUPPORT RAIL 
OR PV PANEL 
ATTACHMENT 
SPACING 
 Equal to multiple of joist, rafter or truss spacing 
ANGLE OF 
PANEL TO ROOF 
SURFACE 
 Provide angle in degrees from the roof surface. 
BALLAST TYPE & 
WEIGHT  If PV panels & frames are to be ballasted, then provide total load per 
panel.  If mechanically attached state 0 lbs. 
PANEL AND RAIL 
UNIFORM LOAD  
Uniform dead load of panel and panel support system, as determined 
by dividing the weight of the panel and support rails by the panel 
area, in pounds per square foot (psf) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 15
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
 
This second Table/Form is to be used to determine th e required wind pressure on the PV panels.  The dim ensions of the building are 
those stated in the General Section of these Guidelines. 
WIND LOADS : 
BUILDING 
CODE 
SECTION 
CODE PROVISION WIND PRESSURE 
 
For PV panels mounted flat to the roof surface, the provisions of CBC Section 13-52-310(b) may be used for the determination 
of the wind load on the panels even though reference is made to “roof framing.”  The wind load provisions of ASCE 7 for 
Components and Cladding provide more appropriate loads for PV panels mounted flat to the roof surface and should be used. 
For  PV panels mounted parallel to a flat or sloped roof. 
CBC Table 
13-52-310 
Table 13-52-310 Column A: For buildings of 200 feet or less the design wind 
pressure is 20 psf 
 
CBC 
Section 13-
52-310(b) 
(b) Roof 
Structures Over 
Enclosed 
Building Or 
Other 
Structures. 
All main roof 
framing 
structures shall 
be designed and 
constructed for 
the following 
pressures: 
1. Flat roofs: an outward pressure acting normal to the surface 
equal to 75 percent of those established in Table 13-52-310, 
Column (A) for the corresponding mean height of the roof and 
applied to the entire roof area. 
 
2. Sloped roof, slope equal to or less than 30 degrees: an 
outward pressure acting normal to the surface equal to 100 
percent on the windward side and 75 percent on the leeward 
side of those established in Table 13-52-310, Column (A) for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
3. Sloped roofs, slope greater than 30 degrees: an inward 
pressure acting normal to the surface equal to 100 percent on 
the windward side and an outward pressure acting normal to the 
surface equal to 75 percent on the leeward side of those 
established in Table 13-52-310, Column (A) for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
5. Roofing sheathing and membranes: an outward pressure 
acting normal to the surface equal to the pressures set forth in 
Section 13-52-310b.1, b.2 and b.3 except within an area at the 
edge of the roof equal to ten percent of the width of the 
structure parallel to the wind direction being considered, 
outward pressure equal to 200 percent of those established in 
Table 13-52-310, Column (A) as set out in this section, for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
Figure 6-
11B 
Roof edge zone is 10% of the least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, 
whichever is smaller but not less than either 4% of least 
horizontal dimension or 3 ft. where h is the mean height of the 
building 
 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.6 
Wind Exposure B for majority of the City except Exposure D within 600 feet (or 20 
times the building height) of Lake Michigan 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.10 
The wind velocity pressure is based upon the expression  
qh = 0.00256KzKzt KdV2I , where:  
 
Basic Wind Speed:    From Figure 6-1, V =  90 mph 
Structure Classification:    From Table 1-1, the structure is 
classified as Category: II 
Importance Factor:    From Table 6-1, I =  1.0 
 
      
 16
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
Wind Directionality Factor:    From Table 6-4, Kd = 0.85 
Exposure Category:    From Section 6.5.6, the exposure 
category is:  
Topographical Effect:    From Section 6.5.7, Kzt  = 1.0 
For  PV panels mounted parallel to a flat or sloped roof. 
Velocity Pressure 
Coefficient:    
From Section 6.5.6.4 and Table 6-
3 for a height of ____ ft. and 
exposure __, Kz = 
 
 Wind Velocity Pressure qh = 0.00256KzKzt KdV2I =     
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.12.4 
The design wind pressure on components and cladding is based upon the 
expression p = qh [( GC p) − (GC pi  )], where: 
 
Internal Pressure 
Coefficient: From Figure 6-5 GC pi  = +/-0.18  
Gust Effect 
Factor: 
The gust effect factor for components and cladding GC p is 
determined from Figures 6-11B through 6-17 for the applicable 
roof type and slope (where θθ θθ is the angle of the roof from the 
horizontal.) 
 
For a Gable Roof 
From Figure 6-
11B for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from  
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where θθ θθ < 7 o and a tributary area of 
____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
θθ θθ < 7 o and a tributary area of ____ 
ft 2, GC p =  
  
From Figure 6-
11C for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where 7 o < θθ θθ < 27 o and a tributary 
area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
7o < θθ θθ < 27 o and a tributary area of 
____ ft 2, GC p =  
  
From Figure 6-
11D for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where 27 o < θθ θθ < 45 o and a tributary 
area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
27 o < θθ θθ < 45 o and a tributary area of 
____ ft 2, GC p =  
  
For Other Roof 
Configuration 
From Figure      
______ 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of roof surface and a 
tributary area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of roof surface and a 
tributary area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
 
      
 17
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
For PV panels mounted at an angle to a flat roof, the Wind Velocity Pressure must be determined from Section 6.5.10 of ASCE 7 
and the appropriate factors and coefficients must be obtained from SEAOC PV2-2012, as listed below, to obtain the Design 
Wind Pressure. 
 
SEAOC 
PV2-2012 
The width of the edge zone is defined as 2a pv.  apv  is defined as  
0.5(hW L)0.5  but need not exceed h.  Where, h = the mean roof height of 
the building and W L = longest plan dimension of the building.   
  
 
From Figure 29.9-1, the net pressure normal to the surface of the PV panel is based 
upon the expression p = q h(γγ γγpγγ γγc(GC m)nom )E , where: 
 
Velocity Pressure: From ASCE 7-05 Section 6-5-10, q h =  
For PV panels mounted at an angle to a flat roof. 
Angle of Panel to Roof 
Surface 
As illustrated in Figure 29.9-1, the angle of 
the panel to the roof surface is:    
Parapet Height Factor: From Figure 29.9-1 for a parapet height of 
____, γγ γγp =  
Panel Chord Length 
Factor: 
From Figure 29.9-1 for a panel angle of 
____, γγ γγc =  
Characteristic Height From Figure 29.9-1 h c = min(h 1, 1ft) + 
lpsin( ωω ωω) =   
Ratio of Edge Distance to 
Characteristic Height 
Controlling ratio of panel - roof edge 
distance to panel characteristic height, 
dx/h c = 
 
Location of Panel Being 
Considered 
Row of the array that the panel is located 
(i.e. North, South, or Interior)  
Location of panel within row (i.e. East end, 
West end, or Interior)  
Array Edge Factor From Figure 29.9-1, for the location of the 
panel within the array, E =  
Roof Zone: From Figure 29.9-1, the roof zone for the 
panels is:  
Building Coefficient From Figure 29.9-1, a pv  =  
Effective Wind Area: 
From Figure 29.9 -1, the effective wind area 
for the structural element ________ being 
designed is: 
 
Normalized Wind Area: From Figure 29.9-1, the normalized wind 
area A n = 
 
Nominal Pressure 
Coefficient: 
From Figure 29.9-1, the nominal net 
pressure coefficient (GC m)nom  = 
 
Design Wind Pressure: p = q h(γγ γγpγγ γγc(GC m)nom )E =   
   
 
Notes: 1) For the calculation of q h, some of the factors are listed.  These factors should apply to most building in the Chicago area, but may 
need to be changed for specific structures. 
 2) From SEAOC PV2-2012 Figure 29.9.1, Note 2: “The re shall be a minimum air gap around the perimeter of each solar module of 0.5 
inches or between rows of panels of 1 inch to allow pressure equalization above and below panels.” 
 3) From SEAOC PV2-2012 Figure 29.9.1 Note 4: “Arra y should not be closer than 2(h 2 – hpt ) or 4 feet, whichever is greater from roof 
edge.  Where h 2 is the distance from the roof to the raised edge of the panel and h pt  is the mean parapet height above the adjacent 
roof surface. 
 
      
 18
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
 
The third and fourth Tales/Forms are to be used to determine/check the required bolt attachment or amount of ballast. 
 
T
he following table applies only to mechanically attached panels and support frames.  Using this table, the adequacy of the mechanical 
attachment of the PV panel rails to the roof is determined.   
 
PV PANEL ATTACHMENT : 
REQUIRED INFORMATION DATA REMARKS 
TRIBUTARY AREA PER 
ATTACHMENT BOLT 
(ft 2/bolt) 
 
Number of panels in a row x panel area / number of bolts 
UPLIFT FORCE PER BOLT 
(lbs)  Tributary area per bolt x wind uplift pressure 
BOLT PULLOUT CAPACITY 
(lbs)  
Pullout strength for wood construction is based upon the National Design 
Specification, manufacturer’s literature and species of wood joist, rafter or 
truss top chord.  For concrete or steel construction, the attachment of the 
frame must comply with the applicable standards for those materials.  (An 
increase in allowable stress or capacity of 1.33 for transient wind loads is 
not allowed.  Anchorage capacity must include a factor of safety of 1.5 as 
discussed above.)   
BOLT PULLOUT CAPACITY 
GREATER THAN WIND 
UPLIFT 
  
  Yes        No 
Yes or no.  If no, revise bolt size and or spacing. 
 
 
 
T
he following table only applies to ballasted PV panels and frames.  Using this table, the amount of ballast is determined or listed. 
PV PANEL BALLAST : 
REQUIRED INFORMATION DATA REMARKS 
TRIBUTARY AREA PER 
PANEL  Surface area of panel that is subject to wind load (sq. ft.) 
UPLIFT WIND PRESSURE  Obtained from Wind Load Table (psf) 
TOTAL BALLAST LOAD PER 
PANEL  
Panel sur face area times the wind load less the panel dead load times a 
factor of safety of 1.5 required to resist uplift, overturning and sliding (lbs)  
(See Factor of Safety discussion above.)  
UNIFORM PROJECTION OF 
BALLAST LOAD ON ROOF 
  
 
Ballast load divided by horizontal projection of ballast support frame or 
area covered by ballast. (psf) 
 
 
  
 
 
      
 19
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
 
Roof framing information is required to determine whether the existing structure is adequate to resist or carry the additional gravity load 
of the new PV panels.  For concrete and structural steel roof structures, evaluation of the structural capacity must be performed by a 
licensed architect or licensed structural engineer.  For wood framed roof structures, the Span Tables included in Appendix 1 may be 
used if the parameters are correct.  Where the wood roof structure includes the use of trusses, the adequacy of the structure must be 
evaluated by a licensed architect or licensed structural engineer. 
Complete the following tables/forms for concrete, s tructural steel or wood construction, as appropriat e, and submit the information with 
the permit application.  At least one of these tables must be completed for all of the permit processes. 
 
EXISTING CONCRETE ROOF CONSTRUCTION :   
ROOF FRAMING TYPE  
 
Flat slab, slab and beam or joists 
SLAB THICKNESS OR JOIST DEPTH   
JOIST/BEAM WIDTH   
JOIST/BEAM SPACING (in.)   
SPAN (ft.)  For two-way slab, list span in both 
directions 
  WEIGHT 
(psf)  
STRUCTURE   Concrete structure dead load 
ROOFING 
TYPE   
Total roofing load 
NUMBER OF LAYERS  
CEILING    
INSULATION    
OTHER   Mechanical and electrical equipment 
BALLAST   Ballast to resist wind loads on PV panel 
system, if used 
  
DEAD LOAD SUBTOTAL 
 
 
SNOW  
  Minimum snow load  of 25 psf  req uired 
by the CBC, plus drifting as defined in 
ASCE 7-05.  (See Note 1.) 
  
TOTAL 
 Total dead and live load to be 
supported by existing structure 
EXISTING STRUCTURAL LOAD 
CAPACITY (psf) 
  Dead and live load capacity of the 
concrete structural slab or joist system 
must be determined by a qualified 
licensed architect or licensed structural 
engineer 
IS THE EXISTING CONCRETE 
STRUCTURE ADEQUATE TO 
SUPPORT THE ADDITIONAL LOAD 
DUE TO THE NEW PV PANEL 
SYSTEM? 
 
 
 Yes       No 
If the structure is not adequate to 
support the additional load, then 
provide drawings and calculations to 
show how the structure is to be 
reinforced 
 
   
 
      
 20
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
 
The evaluation of the roof framing in this table is based upon the PV panel support rails being oriente d perpendicular to the joists, 
rafters or trusses.  For other configurations, separate calculations must be submitted. 
EXISTING STRUCTURAL STEEL ROOF CONSTRUCTION :   
ROOF FLAT OR SLOPED 
 
 
Provide roof slope (in./12 in.) and 
degrees or 0 if none or flat 
αα αα = atan(rise/run) and is the angle of the 
roof plane from the horizontal 
FRAMING TYPE  Joists, trusses or beams 
DECK TYPE  Concrete and/or metal deck 
JOIST, TRUSS OR BEAM SPACING (in.)   
SPAN (ft.)  Joist, rafter or truss span. (Horizontal 
projection) 
  WEIGHT 
(psf)  
STRUCTURAL STEEL   Steel framing dead load 
METAL DECK    
CONCRETE   If a concrete deck or fill is not used, list 
0 or none 
ROOFING 
TYPE   
Total roofing load 
NUMBER OF LAYERS  
CEILING    
INSULATION    
OTHER   Mechanical and electrical equipment 
PV PANEL    
BALLAST   Ballast to resist win loads on PV panel 
system, if used. 
  
DEAD LOAD SUBTOTAL 
 
 
SNOW  
  Minimum snow load  of 25 psf  req uired 
by the CBC, plus drifting as defined in 
ASCE 7-05.  (See Note 1.) 
  
TOTAL 
 Total dead and live load to be supported 
by existing structure 
LIVE LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING   Live or snow load per lineal foot of member (plf) 
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF DEAD 
LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING    
 
      
 21
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF PV 
PANEL DEAD LOAD TIMES SUPPORT 
SPACING 
  
Uniform load of PV panel times support spacing and 
divided by the cosine of the roof angle (The PV panel 
load is assumed over full length of member.) (plf) 
TOTAL PROJECTED DEAD, PV PANEL 
& LIVE LOAD SUPPORTED BY 
MEMBER 
 
 Sum of dead, PV panel and live loads (plf) 
STRUCTURAL LOAD CAPACITY 
 
 
Dead and live load capacity of the structural steel 
system must be determined by a qualified licensed 
architect or licensed structural engineer. 
IS THE EXISTING STEEL STRUCTURE 
ADEQUATE TO SUPPORT THE 
ADDITIONAL LOAD DUE TO THE NEW 
PV PANEL SYSTEM? 
   
 
    Yes        No 
If the structure is not adequate to 
support the additional load, then provide 
drawings and calculations to show how 
the structure is to be reinforced. 
 
 
1. For roofs with slopes in excess of 30 degrees from the horizontal, snow loads may be reduced in accordance with CBC Section 13-
52-280(b).  However, all roof snow loads must be determined with consideration of drifting that can occur due to parapets, roof top 
equipment, penthouses and adjacent higher buildings.  
 
  
 
      
 22
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION *** 
 
The evaluation of the roof framing in this table is based upon the PV panel support rails being oriente d perpendicular to the joists, 
rafters or trusses.  For other configurations, separate calculations must be submitted. 
EXISTING WOOD ROOF CONSTRUCTION :   
ROOF FLAT OR SLOPED 
 
 
Provide roof slope (in./12 in.) and degrees 
or 0 if none or flat 
αα αα = atan(rise/run) and is the angle of the 
roof plane from the horizontal 
FRAMING TYPE  Joists/rafters or trusses 
WOOD SPECIES AND GRADE  If unknown, use SPF No. 2 
JOIST/RAFTER OR TRUSS SPACING   Units = inches (in.) 
SPAN (ft.)  Joist, rafter or truss span. (Horizontal 
projection) 
  WEIGHT 
(psf)  
JOIST/RAFTER OR TOP CHORD SIZE.   Size of lumber 
SHEATHING TYPE   Plywood or lumber 
ROOFING 
TYPE  
 Total roofing load 
NUMBER OF LAYERS  
CEILING    
INSULATION    
OTHER   Other materials including mechanical and 
electrical equipment 
BALLAST   Ballast to resist wind loads on PV panel 
system, if used 
  
DEAD LOAD SUBTOTAL  Dead load per square foot of roof surface 
SNOW  
 
 
Minimum snow load of 25 psf required by 
the CBC, plus drifting as defined in ASCE 
7-05.   (See Noe 1.) 
 TOTAL DEAD & LIVE LOAD  
Total dead and live load to be supported 
by existing structure along length of 
member 
LIVE LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING   Live or snow load per lineal foot of member (plf) 
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF DEAD 
LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING   Uniform dead load times support spacing and divided 
by the cosine of the roof angle 
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF PV 
PANEL DEAD LOAD TIMES SUPPORT 
SPACING 
  
Uniform load of PV panel times support spacing and 
divided by the cosine of the roof angle (The PV panel 
load is assumed over full length of member.) (plf) 
TOTAL PROJECTED DEAD AND PV 
PANEL LOAD AND  LIVE LOAD 
SUPPORTED BY MEMBER 
 
 Sum of dead, PV panel and live loads (plf) 
 
      
 23
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
STRUCTURAL LOAD CAPACITY 
 
 Maximum load capacity of the wood roof rafters, 
joists or trusses calculated separately (plf) 
ALTERNATE – USE TABLES TO 
DETERMINE MAXIMUM SPAN 
    
 
     Yes        No  
State whether tables are being used and 
provide the maximum span listed in 
tables. (ft.) 
IS THE EXISTING WOOD STRUCTURE 
ADEQUATE TO SUPPORT THE 
ADDITIONAL LOAD DUE TO THE NEW 
PV PANEL SYSTEM? 
   
 
 Yes       No 
If the structure is not adequate to support 
the additional load, then provide drawings 
and calculations to show how the 
structure is to be reinforced. 
 
 
1. 
For roofs with slopes in excess of 30 degrees from the horizontal, snow loads may be reduced in accordance with CBC Section 13-
52-280(b).  However, all roof snow loads must be determined with consideration of drifting that can occur due to parapets, roof top 
equipment, penthouses and adjacent higher buildings.  
 
 
  
  
 
      
 24
Structural  
E 
SECTION  
PAGE 
10. 21.13  
*** REQUIRED SUBMITTAL INFORMATION ***  
 
 
PV Panel Easy Permit Process  
Professional of Record Certification Statement  
 
 
 
Application Number: _______________________________ ________________________________ 
 
Project Address: __________________________________ ________________________________ 
 
I hereby certify that: (1) information and assertions made on this Permit Application are true and cor rect, (2) the attached 
Application, calculations and each page of the plans that I have stamped were personally prepared by m e and submitted 
herewith are complete and in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Municipal Code of Chicag o and any 
applicable state or federal laws, as of this date. I further state that I have exercised a professional standard of care in the 
preparation, completion and submission of these doc uments and am aware that the Commissioner of the De partment of 
Buildings (DOB) will rely upon the truth and accuracy of this statement as the basis for issuance of a building permit. If it is 
determined by DOB that the submitted plans do not conform to all such laws, I agree to immediately take all remedial 
measures within my control, to meet the DOB’s requi rements. I also agree that if I become aware of any false or 
inaccurate statements made in any document provided  to DOB, (whether such misrepresentations are made by agents, 
my employees or by me) I will immediately take all necessary measures to correct such statements. I re alize that failure to 
take any such corrective action may result in termination of my participation in the DOB PV Panel Easy Permit Process 
 
and notification to the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation. 
 
 
ARCHITECT:        STRUCTURAL ENGINEER: 
 
Signature: _______________________________________  Signature: ____________________________________ 
 
Printed Name: ____________________________________  Printed Name: ________________________________ 
 
Address: ________________________________________  Address: _____________________________________ 
 
Dated: __________________________________________  Dated: _______________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AFFIX SEAL HERE  AFFIX SEAL HERE  
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A1
PAGE 
The following Wood Joist/Rafter Maximum Span Tables can be used to determine the adequacy of an existin g wood framed roof structure to 
support the additional dead load created by PV pane l installation.  The tables include three wood spec ies.  The actual wood species used for 
roof framing may be determined by checking the grad e stamps on the wood members.  If the grade stamps cannot be found, then the species 
of the lumber should be assumed to be Spruce-Pine-Fir, No. 2. 
The span tables are based upon a snow live load of 25 psf on a flat roof and the horizontal projection on sloped roofs listed and a variable snow 
load as per CBC Section 13-52-280(b) for slopes of 8:12 to 14:12.  These tables do not include conside ration of snow drifting that may occur 
with various roof configurations and adjacent taller buildings. 
The span tables apply to joists or rafters supporti ng uniform loads and one or two rows of PV panels s et at the midspan of the member.  For 
joists or rafters on roofs with a slope of 2 inches  per foot or less, the maximum span is based upon t he members acting as simple span 
elements.  Simple span members are those that are s upported vertically at either end to carry the grav ity load.  (See Illustration No. 1)  For 
rafters with a slope of 4 inches per foot or greate r, the maximum span is based upon the condition whe re the rafters bear against one another 
at the ridge but are not supported by a beam at the  ridge.  In essence, the rafters form a simple trus s or triangle where the rafters have both 
axial and bending stresses.  In addition, the rafte rs are tied to the ceiling (or attic floor joists),  at their ends, to transmit the horizontal tensile 
force through the ceiling or attic floor joists.  T he rafters and joists are parallel to one another a nd the connections between the two are 
sufficient to transfer the axial tensile force from one side of the roof (or attic) to the other.  (Se e Illustration No. 2)  All dimensions are in decimal 
feet. 
Tables 1 through 4 are based upon the support rails  being perpendicular to the joists or rafters and t he PV panels being attached to the 
members at 32 inches on center and therefore the dead load is carried by every other joist or rafter.  Tables 5 through 8 are based upon the PV 
panels being attached to the members at 48 inches o n center and the panel dead load is carried by ever y third joist or rafter.  All of the tables 
are based on the long dimension of the panels orien ted vertically (or parallel to the joists or rafter s).  For the tables based upon double rows of 
panels, the overall dimension of the two rows is 11 ’-1”.  As the PV panels can also be installed horiz ontally, the tables for double rows can also 
be used for three rows of panels oriented horizontally provided that the sum of the width of the 3 panels and spaces does not exceed 11’-1”. 
The tables for double rows of PV panels are also ba sed upon both rows being attached to the same joist s or rafters.  That is, the attachment of 
the rows of PV panels is not staggered.  If however , the attachment of the rows of PV panels is to be staggered such that no joist or rafter 
carries more than one row, the span tables for one row may be used. 
Where joists or rafters have span or load condition s that differ from that listed in the tables, a sep arate analysis and design must be made of 
those members using accepted engineering practice a nd the provisions of the National Design Specificat ion for Wood Construction of the 
American Forest and Paper Association, as well as the requirements of the Chicago Building Code. 
 
TABLE 1:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH SINGLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 32”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 14 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 12.8 12.7 11.3 11.3 11.3 11.2 10.9 10.7 11.6 11.9 12.1 12.1 
No. 2 11 11 10.1 10.1 10 9.9 9.7 9.5 10.3 10.6 10.7 10.8 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 10.5 10.5 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.3 9.1 8.9 9.7 9.9 10. 1 10.1 
No. 2 9.9 9.8 8.9 8.9 8.9 8.8 8.6 8.4 9.1 9.4 9.5 9.6 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 11.3 11.2 10.2 10.2 10.2 10 9.8 9.6 10.4 10.7  10.8 10.9 
No. 2 10.7 10.6 9.7 9.7 9.7 9.5 9.3 9.1 9.9 10.1 10.3 10.3 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 16.2 16.1 14.5 14.5 14.5 14.3 14 13.7 14.9 15 .3 15.5 15.6 
No. 2 14.4 14.4 13.2 13.2 13.1 12.9 12.7 12.4 13.5 13.8 14.1 14.1 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 13.4 13.3 12.2 12.2 12.1 12 11.7 11.5 12.5 12 .8 13 13.1 
No. 2 12.6 12.5 11.5 11.5 11.5 11.3 11.1 10.8 11.8 12.1 12.3 12.3 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 14.4 14.4 13.1 13.1 13.1 12.9 12.6 12.3 13.4 13.8 14 14.1 
No. 2 13.6 13.6 12.5 12.5 12.4 12.2 12 11.7 12.7 13.1 13.3 13.4 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 19.3 19.2 17.6 17.6 17.5 17.3 16.9 16.5 18 18 .5 18.8 18.9 
No. 2 17.3 17.2 16 16 15.9 15.7 15.4 15 16.3 16.8 17.1 17.2 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 16.5 16.4 15.1 15.1 15.1 14.8 14.5 14.2 15.4 15.9 16.1 16.2 
No. 2 15.5 15.4 14.3 14.3 14.2 14 13.7 13.4 14.6 15 15.2 15.3 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 17.7 17.7 16.3 16.3 16.2 16 15.6 15.3 16.6 17 .1 17.4 17.5 
No. 2 16.8 16.7 15.5 15.5 15.4 15.1 14.8 14.5 15.8 16.2 16.5 16.6 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 23.1 23.1 21.2 21.2 21.1 20.8 20.3 19.9 21.6 2 2.3 22.6 22.8 
No. 2 20.4 20.3 19 19 18.9 18.6 18.2 17.8 19.4 19.9 20.3 20.4 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 19.1 19.1 17.7 17.7 17.6 17.3 17 16.6 18.1 18. 6 18.9 19.1 
No. 2 18 18 16.8 16.8 16.7 16.4 16.1 15.7 17.1 17.6 17.9 18 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 20.6 20.6 19.1 19.1 19 18.7 18.3 17.9 19.5 20. 1 20.4 20.6 
No. 2 19.5 19.5 18.2 18.2 18 17.8 17.4 17 18.5 19 19.4 19.5 
 
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A2
PAGE 
 
TABLE 2:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH DOUBLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 32”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 14 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 12.4 12.4 11 11 11 10.8 10.6 10.3 11.3 11.5 1 1.6 11.6 
No. 2 *** *** *** 9.9 9.8 9.6 9.4 9.2 10 10.2 10.3 10.3 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 *** *** *** *** 9.2 9 8.8 8.6 9.4 9.6 9.7 9.7  
No. 2 *** *** *** *** *** 8.6 8.4 8.2 8.9 9.1 9.2 9.2 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 11 11 *** 10 9.9 9.2 9.5 9.3 10.1 10.3 10.4 1 0.4 
No. 2 *** *** *** *** 9.4 9.7 9 8.8 9.6 9.8 9.9 9.9 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 15.7 15.7 14.1 14.1 14.1 13.9 13.6 13.2 14.4 14.8 14.9 15 
No. 2 14 14 12.8 12.8 12.8 12.5 12.3 12 13.1 13.4 13.5 13.6 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 13 13 11.9 11.9 11.8 11.6 11.4 11.1 12.1 12.4  12.5 12.5 
No. 2 12.3 12.2 11.2 11.2 11.2 11 10.7 10.5 11.4 11.7 11.8 11.8 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 14 14 12.8 12.8 12.7 12.5 12.2 11.9 13 13.3 1 3.5 13.5 
No. 2 13.3 13.2 12.2 12.2 12.1 11.9 11.6 11.3 12.4 12.6 12.8 12.8 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 18.8 18.7 17.1 17.1 17.1 16.8 16.4 16.1 17.5 17.9 18.2 18.3 
No. 2 16.8 16.8 15.6 15.6 15.5 15.2 14.9 14.6 15.9 16.2 16.5 16.6 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 16 16 14.7 14.7 14.6 14.4 14.1 13.8 15 15.3 1 5.5 15.6 
No. 2 15.1 15 13.9 13.9 13.8 13.6 13.3 13 14.1 14.5 14.7 14.7 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 17.2 17.2 15.9 15.9 15.7 15.5 15.2 14.8 16.1 16.5 16.8 16.9 
No. 2 16.3 16.3 15.1 15.1 14.9 14.7 14.4 14.1 15.3 15.7 15.9 16 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 22.5 22.5 20.6 20.6 20.6 20.2 19.8 19.4 21.8 2 1.6 21.9 22.1 
No. 2 19.8 19.8 18.5 18.5 18.3 18 17.7 17.3 18.8 19.3 19.6 19.7 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 18.6 18.6 17.3 17.3 17.1 16.9 16.5 16.2 17.6 1 8 18.3 18.4 
No. 2 17.5 17.5 16.3 16.3 16.2 15.9 15.6 15.3 16.6 17 17.3 17.4 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 20.1 20 18.6 18.6 18.5 18.2 17.8 17.4 19 19.4 19.7 19.9 
No. 2 19 18.9 17.7 17.7 17.5 17.2 16.9 16.5 18 18.4 18.7 18.8 
 
*** Member is not long enough to accommodate two ro ws of PV panels.  (Member length = span/cos( α) where α is the angle of the roof 
slope.)  (The PV panel length used is 5’-6” with a 1” space between the rows.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ILLUSTRATION No. 1 – SIMPLE SPAN JOISTS OR RAFTERS 
 
12" 
x" 
RAFTER / JOIST SPAN 
ROOF STRUCT 
SOLAR PANEL DEAD LOAD 
DEAD LOAD 
ROOF SLOPE 
x" / 12" 
JOIST SPAN 
ROOF STRUCT 
SOLAR PANEL DEAD LOAD 
DEAD LOAD 
SLOPED ROOF FLAT ROOF 
SOLAR PANEL 
SOLAR PANEL 
UPPER END OF RAFTER 
MUST BE SUPPORTED 
BY BEAM OR WALL 
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A3
PAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ILLUSTRATION No. 2 – ATTIC FRAME 
 
T
ables 3 & 4 are similar to Tables 1 & 2, respective ly, except that the dead load of the existing roof structure is reduced to include only 
the roofing, roof sheathing and joists or rafters. 
 
TABLE 3:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH SINGLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 32”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 8 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 13.8 13.8 12.1 12.1 12.1 12.2 11.9 11.4 12.7 13.2 13.5 13.8 
No. 2 11.9 11.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.8 10.6 10.2 11.2 11.7 12 12.3 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 11.3 11.3 10.2 10.2 10.2 10.1 10 9.6 10.5 11 11.3 11.5 
No. 2 10.6 10.6 9.6 9.6 9.6 9.6 9.4 9.1 10 10.4 10.7 10.9 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 12.2 12.1 11 11 11 10.9 10.7 10.3 11.4 11.8 1 2.2 12.4 
No. 2 11.5 11.5 10.4 10.4 10.4 10.4 10.2 9.8 10.8 11.2 11.6 11.8 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 17.5 17.4 15.6 15.6 15.6 15.6 15.3 14.7 16.2 16.9 17.4 17.8 
No. 2 15.6 15.5 14.2 14.2 14.2 14.1 13.9 13.4 14.7 15.3 15.8 16.2 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 14.5 14.4 13.1 13.1 13.1 13.1 12.9 12.4 13.6 14.2 14.6 14.9 
No. 2 13.6 13.6 12.4 12.4 12.4 12.3 12.1 11.7 12.9 13.4 13.8 14.1 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 15.6 15.5 14.1 14.1 14.1 14.1 13.8 13.3 14.7 15.3 15.8 16.1 
No. 2 14.7 14.7 13.4 13.4 13.4 13.3 13.1 12.7 13.9 14.5 15 15.3 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 20.9 20.9 19 19 19 18.9 18.6 17.9 19.7 20.6 2 1.2 21.7 
No. 2 18.7 18.7 17.3 17.3 17.3 17.2 16.9 16.3 17.9 18.7 19.3 19.8 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 17.8 17.8 16.3 16.3 16.3 16.2 15.9 15.4 16.9 17.6 18.2 18.6 
No. 2 16.7 16.7 15.4 15.4 15.4 15.3 15.1 14.5 16 16.6 17.2 17.6 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 19.2 19.1 17.6 17.6 17.6 17.5 17.2 16.6 18.2 19 19.6 20.1 
No. 2 18.1 18.1 16.7 16.7 16.7 16.6 16.3 15.7 17.3 18 18.6 19.1 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 25 25 22.9 22.9 22.9 22.7 22.4 21.5 23.7 24.8 25.6 26.2 
No. 2 22.1 22 20.6 20.6 20.6 20.3 20 19.3 21.2 22.2 22.9 23.5 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 20.7 20.7 19.2 19.2 19.2 19 18.7 18 19.8 20.7 21.4 21.9 
No. 2 19.5 19.5 18.1 18.1 18.1 17.9 17.7 17.1 18.7 19.6 20.2 20.7 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 22.3 22.3 20.7 20.7 20.7 20.5 20.2 19.5 21.4 2 2.3 23.1 23.6 
No. 2 21.1 21.1 19.7 19.7 19.7 19.4 19.2 18.5 20.3 21.2 21.9 22.4 
 
12" 
x" 
RAFTER SPAN 
ROOF STRUCT 
SOLAR PANEL DEAD LOAD 
DEAD LOAD 
ROOF SLOPE 
x" / 12" 
ATTIC FRAME 
R
Rv
H
RH
CEILING / ATTIC FLOOR JOIST 
RAFTERS BEAR AGAINST 
EACH OTHER AT APEX 
(NO RIDGE BEAM) 
RAFTERS 
SOLAR PANEL 
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A4
PAGE 
 
TABLE 4:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH DOUBLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 32”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 8 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 13.4 13.3 11.8 11.8 11.8 11.7 11.5 11.3 12.2 12.6 12.9 13.1 
No. 2 11.6 11.6 10.6 10.6 10.5 10.4 10.2 10 10.8 11.2 11.5 11.6 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 11 11 9.9 9.9 9.9 9.8 9.6 9.4 10.2 10.5 10.7 10.9 
No. 2 *** *** *** *** 9.4 9.3 9.1 8.9 9.6 9.9 10.2 10.3 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 11.8 11.8 10.7 10.7 10.7 10.5 10.3 10.1 11 11 .3 11.6 11.8 
No. 2 11.2 11.2 10.1 10.1 10.1 10 9.8 9.6 10.4 10.8 11 11.1 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 16.9 16.9 15.1 15.1 15.1 15 14.8 14.5 15.7 16 .3 16.7 17 
No. 2 15.1 15 13.8 13.8 13.8 13.6 13.4 13.1 14.2 14.7 15.1 15.4 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 14 14 12.7 12.7 12.7 12.6 12.4 12.1 13.1 13.6  13.9 14.2 
No. 2 13.2 13.2 12.1 12.1 12.1 11.9 11.7 11.5 12.4 12.8 13.1 13.4 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 15.1 15 13.7 13.7 13.7 13.6 13.3 13.1 14.1 14 .7 15 15.3 
No. 2 14.3 14.2 13 13 13 12.9 12.7 12.4 13.4 13.9 14.3 14.5 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 20.2 20.2 18.4 18.4 18.4 18.3 18 17.6 19 19.8  20.4 20.8 
No. 2 18.1 18.1 16.8 16.8 16.8 16.6 16.3 16 17.3 17.9 18.5 18.9 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 17.2 17.2 15.8 15.8 15.8 15.6 15.4 15.1 16.3 16.9 17.4 17.7 
No. 2 16.2 16.2 14.9 14.9 14.9 14.8 14.5 14.2 15.4 16 16.4 16.7 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 18.5 18.5 17 17 17 16.9 16.6 16.3 17.6 18.3 1 8.8 19.2 
No. 2 17.6 17.5 16.2 16.2 16.2 16 15.7 15.5 16.7 17.3 17.8 18.2 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 24.3 24.3 22.2 22.2 22.2 22 21.7 21.3 23 23.9 24.7 25.2 
No. 2 21.4 21.3 19.9 19.9 19.9 19.7 19.4 19 20.5 21.3 22 22.5 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 20.1 20 18.6 18.6 18.6 18.4 18.1 17.8 19.1 19. 9 20.5 21 
No. 2 18.9 18.8 17.6 17.6 17.6 17.3 17.1 16.8 18.1 18.8 19.4 19.8 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 21.6 21.6 20.1 20.1 20.1 19.8 19.5 19.2 20.7 2 1.5 22.2 22.7 
No. 2 20.5 20.4 19.1 19.1 19 18.8 18.5 18.2 19.6 20.4 21 21.5 
 
*** Member is not long enough to accommodate two ro ws of PV panels.  (Member length = span/cos( α) where α is the angle of the roof 
slope.)  (The PV panel length used is 5’-6” with a 1” space between the rows.) 
 
 
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A5
PAGE 
 
TABLE 5:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH SINGLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 48”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 14 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 12.4 12.4 11 11 11 10.9 10.6 10.4 11.3 11.6 1 1.7 11.7 
No. 2 10.7 10.7 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.6 9.4 9.2 10 10.2 10.4 10.4 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 10.2 10.1 9.2 9.2 9.2 9 8.8 8.6 9.4 9.6 9.7 9 .8 
No. 2 9.5 9.5 8.7 8.7 8.7 8.5 8.3 8.1 8.9 9.1 9.2 9.2 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 10.9 10.9 9.9 9.9 9.9 9.7 9.5 9.3 10.1 10.4 1 0.5 10.5 
No. 2 10.3 10.3 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.2 9 8.8 9.6 9.8 9.9 10 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 15.8 15.7 14.2 14.2 14.2 14 13.7 13.4 14.5 14 .9 15.1 15.2 
No. 2 14 14 12.9 12.9 12.8 12.6 12.4 12.1 13.1 13.5 13.7 13.8 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 13 13 11.9 11.9 11.8 11.7 11.4 11.2 12.1 12.4  12.6 12.7 
No. 2 12.2 12.2 11.2 11.2 11.2 11 10.8 10.5 11.4 11.7 11.9 12 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 14 14 12.8 12.8 12.8 12.6 12.3 12 13.1 13.4 1 3.6 13.7 
No. 2 13.3 13.2 12.2 12.2 12.1 11.9 11.7 11.4 12.4 12.7 12.9 13 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 18.9 18.9 17.3 17.3 17.2 16.9 16.6 16.2 17.6 18.1 18.4 18.5 
No. 2 16.9 16.9 15.7 15.7 15.6 15.4 15.1 14.7 16 16.4 16.7 16.8 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 16.1 16 14.8 14.8 14.7 14.5 14.2 13.9 15.1 15 .5 15.7 15.8 
No. 2 15.1 15.1 14 14 13.9 13.7 13.4 13.1 14.2 14.6 14.8 14.9 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 17.3 17.3 16 16 15.9 15.6 15.3 15 16.3 16.7 1 7 17.1 
No. 2 16.4 16.3 15.1 15.1 15.1 14.8 14.5 14.2 15.4 15.8 16.1 16.2 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 22.7 22.6 20.8 20.8 20.7 20.4 20 19.6 21.3 21. 9 22.2 22.4 
No. 2 20 19.9 18.7 18.7 18.5 18.2 17.9 17.5 19 19.5 19.8 20 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 18.7 18.7 17.4 17.4 17.3 17 16.7 16.3 17.7 18. 2 18.5 18.7 
No. 2 17.6 17.6 16.4 16.4 16.3 16.1 15.8 15.4 16.7 17.2 17.5 17.6 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 20.2 20.2 18.8 18.8 18.7 18.4 18 17.6 19.1 19. 7 20 20.2 
No. 2 19.1 19.1 17.8 17.8 17.7 17.4 17.1 16.7 18.1 18.6 19 19.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A6
PAGE 
 
TABLE 6:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH DOUBLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 48”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 14 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 12 12 10.6 10.6 10.6 10.4 10.2 9.9 10.8 11 11 .1 11.1 
No. 2 *** *** *** *** 9.4 9.2 9 8.8 9.6 9.8 9.8 9.8 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 *** *** *** *** *** 8.7 8.5 8.3 *** 9.2 9.2 9 .2 
No. 2 *** *** *** *** *** *** 8 7.8 *** 8.7 8.7 8.7 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 *** *** *** *** 9.5 9.3 9.1 8.9 9.7 9.9 9.9 9 .9 
No. 2 *** *** *** *** *** 8.9 8.7 8.4 9.3 9.4 9.4 9.4 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 15.2 15.1 13.6 13.6 13.6 13.4 13.1 12.8 13.9 14.2 14.3 14.3 
No. 2 13.5 13.5 12.4 12.4 12.3 12.1 11.8 11.5 12.6 12.8 12.9 13 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 12.6 12.5 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.2 10.9 10.7 11.6 11.8 11.9 11.9 
No. 2 11.8 11.8 10.8 10.8 10.7 10.5 10.3 10 11 11.2 11.3 11.3 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 13.5 13.5 12.3 12.3 12.3 12 11.8 11.5 12.5 12 .8 12.9 12.9 
No. 2 12.8 12.8 11.7 11.7 11.6 11.4 11.2 10.9 11.9 12.1 12.2 12.2 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 18.2 18.1 16.6 16.6 16.5 16.2 15.9 15.5 16.9 17.3 17.5 17.6 
No. 2 16.2 16.2 15.1 15.1 14.9 14.7 14.4 14.1 15.3 15.6 15.8 15.9 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 15.4 15.4 14.2 14.2 14.1 13.9 13.6 13.3 14.4 14.7 14.9 15 
No. 2 14.5 14.5 13.4 13.4 13.3 13.1 12.8 12.5 13.6 13.9 14 14.1 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 16.6 16.6 15.3 15.3 15.2 15 14.7 14.3 15.6 15 .9 16.1 16.2 
No. 2 15.7 15.7 14.6 14.6 14.4 14.2 13.9 13.6 14.8 15.1 15.3 15.3 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 21.8 21.8 20.1 20.1 20 19.6 19.2 18.8 20.4 20. 9 21.2 21.3 
No. 2 19.2 19.1 17.9 17.9 17.8 17.5 17.1 16.8 18.2 18.6 18.9 19 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 18 18 16.7 16.7 16.6 16.3 16 15.6 17 17.4 17.6  17.7 
No. 2 16.9 16.9 15.8 15.8 15.6 15.4 15.1 14.7 16 16.4 16.6 16.7 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 19.4 19.4 18.1 18.1 17.9 17.6 17.3 16.9 18.3 1 8.8 19 19.1 
No. 2 18.4 18.3 17.1 17.1 17 16.7 16.4 16 17.4 17.8 18 18.1 
 
*** Member is not long enough to accommodate two ro ws of PV panels.  (Member length = span/cos( α) where α is the angle of the roof 
slope.)  (The PV panel length used is 5’-6” with a 1” space between the rows.) 
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A7
PAGE 
Tables 7 & 8 are similar to Tables 5 & 6, respective ly, except that the dead load of the existing roof structure is reduced to include only 
the roofing, roof sheathing and joists or rafters. 
 
TABLE 7:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH SINGLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 48”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 8 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 13.4 13.3 11.8 11.8 11.8 11.8 11.6 11.4 12.3 12.7 13.1 13.3 
No. 2 11.5 11.5 10.5 10.5 10.5 10.4 10.3 10.1 10.9 11.3 11.6 11.8 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 10.9 10.9 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.8 9.6 9.4 10.2 10.6 1 0.8 11 
No. 2 10.3 10.2 9.3 9.3 9.3 9.2 9.1 8.9 9.6 10 10.2 10.4 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 11.8 11.7 10.6 10.6 10.6 10.6 10.4 10.2 11 11 .4 11.7 11.9 
No. 2 11.1 11.1 10.1 10.1 10.1 10 9.9 9.7 10.4 10.8 11.1 11.3 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 17 17 15.2 15.2 15.2 15.2 15 14.7 15.8 16.5 1 6.9 17.3 
No. 2 15.1 15.1 13.8 13.8 13.8 13.7 13.5 13.3 14.3 14.9 15.3 15.7 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 14 14 12.8 12.8 12.8 12.7 12.5 12.3 13.2 13.7  14.1 14.4 
No. 2 13.2 13.1 12.1 12.1 12.1 12 11.8 11.6 12.5 12.9 13.3 13.6 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 15.1 15.1 13.8 13.8 13.8 13.7 13.5 13.2 14.3 14.8 15.3 15.6 
No. 2 14.3 14.3 13.1 13.1 13.1 13 12.8 12.5 13.5 14.1 14.5 14.8 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 20.4 20.4 18.6 18.6 18.6 18.5 18.2 17.9 19.3 20.1 20.7 21.1 
No. 2 18.2 18.2 16.9 16.9 16.9 16.8 16.5 16.2 17.5 18.2 18.8 19.2 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 17.3 17.3 15.9 15.9 15.9 15.8 15.6 15.3 16.5 17.1 17.7 18.1 
No. 2 16.3 16.3 15 15 15 14.9 14.7 14.4 15.5 16.2 16.7 17 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 18.7 18.7 17.2 17.2 17.2 17 16.8 16.5 17.8 18 .5 19.1 19.5 
No. 2 17.7 17.6 16.3 16.3 16.3 16.2 15.9 15.6 16.8 17.5 18.1 18.5 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 24.5 24.5 22.5 22.5 22.5 22.3 22 21.6 23.3 24. 3 25 25.6 
No. 2 21.6 21.5 20.1 20.1 20.1 19.9 19.6 19.3 20.8 21.6 22.4 22.9 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 20.2 20.2 18.8 18.8 18.8 18.6 18.3 18 19.4 20. 2 20.9 21.3 
No. 2 19 19 17.7 17.7 17.7 17.5 17.3 17 18.3 19.1 19.7 20.2 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 21.8 21.8 20.3 20.3 20.3 20.1 19.8 19.4 20.9 2 1.8 22.5 23.1 
No. 2 20.7 20.6 19.2 19.2 19.2 19 18.7 18.4 19.8 20.7 21.4 21.9 
 
 
 
 
 
TYPICAL UNIFORM LOAD OF ROOFING MATERIALS 
ROOF MEMBRANE UNIFORM LOAD OR WEIGHT 
Asphalt Shingles 3 psf / layer 
Modified Bitumen 2 psf / layer 
Built-Up Roof 6 psf / layer 
EPDM, PVC or TPO 1 psf / layer 
SLATE 10 psf 
Clay tile 9 – 14 psf 
Standing Seam Metal 1 psf 
 
 
 
 
 
      
Span Tables  
1 
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A8
PAGE 
TABLE 8:  
 WOOD JOIST/RAFTER  MAXIMUM SPANS  ( for 16” o.c. spacing)  
WITH DOUBLE ROW OF PV PANELS AT MIDSPAN (ft.) AND 
PANEL SUPPORT AT 48”  o.c.  
DEAD LOAD: 8 PSF 
 LIVE LOAD 25 PSF VARIES WITH SLOPE 
Joist/Rafter 
Size Species Grade 
Roof Slope (inches vertical per horizontal ft.) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 8 10 12 14 
2x6 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 12.8 12.8 11.3 11.3 11.3 11.2 11 10.7 11.7 12  12.2 12.3 
No. 2 11.1 11.1 *** 10.2 10.1 9.9 9.7 9.5 10.3 10.6 10.8 10.9 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 *** *** *** *** 9.5 9.3 9.1 8.9 9.7 10 10.1 1 0.2 
No. 2 *** *** *** *** *** 8.8 8.6 8.4 *** 9.4 9.6 9.6 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 11.4 11.3 *** 10.3 10.2 10.1 9.9 9.6 10.5 10. 8 10.9 11 
No. 2 *** *** *** *** 9.7 9.5 9.4 9.1 9.9 10.2 10.4 10.5 
2x8 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 16.3 16.2 14.6 14.6 14.6 14.5 14.2 13.9 15 15 .5 15.9 16.1 
No. 2 14.5 14.4 13.2 13.2 13.2 13 12.8 12.6 13.6 14 14.3 14.5 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 13.4 13.4 12.2 12.2 12.2 12 11.8 11.6 12.5 12 .9 13.2 13.4 
No. 2 12.6 12.6 11.6 11.6 11.5 11.4 11.2 10.9 11.8 12.2 12.4 12.6 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 14.5 14.4 13.2 13.2 13.2 13 12.8 12.5 13.5 14  14.3 14.5 
No. 2 13.7 13.7 12.5 12.5 12.5 12.3 12.1 11.9 12.8 13.2 13.5 13.7 
2X10 
Southern 
Pine 
No. 1 19.5 19.5 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.6 17.3 17 18.3 19  19.5 19.8 
No. 2 17.4 17.4 16.2 16.2 16.1 15.9 15.7 15.4 16.6 17.2 17.6 17.9 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No. 1 16.6 16.5 15.2 15.2 15.2 15 14.8 14.5 15.6 16 .2 16.6 16.8 
No. 2 15.6 15.5 14.4 14.4 14.3 14.1 13.9 13.7 14.7 15.2 15.6 15.9 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No. 1 17.8 17.8 16.4 16.4 16.4 16.2 16 15.7 16.9 17 .5 17.9 18.2 
No. 2 16.9 16.8 15.6 15.6 15.6 15.4 15.1 14.8 16 16.5 17 17.3 
2x12 
Southern 
Pine 
No.1 23.5 23.5 21.5 21.5 21.5 21.3 21 20.6 22.2 23. 1 23.7 24.2 
No. 2 20.6 20.6 19.3 19.3 19.2 19 18.7 18.4 19.8 20.5 21.1 21.5 
Spruce 
Pine Fir 
No.1 19.3 19.3 17.9 17.9 17.9 17.7 17.4 17.1 18.4 1 9.1 19.6 20 
No. 2 18.2 18.1 16.9 16.9 16.9 16.7 16.4 16.1 17.4 18 18.5 18.8 
Douglas 
Fir Larch 
No.1 20.9 20.8 19.4 19.4 19.4 19.1 18.8 18.5 19.9 2 0.7 21.3 21.7 
No. 2 19.7 19.7 18.4 18.4 18.3 18.1 17.8 17.5 18.9 19.6 20.1 20.5 
 
*** Member is not long enough to accommodate two ro ws of PV panels.  (Member length = span/cos( α) where α is the angle of the roof 
slope.)  (The PV panel length used is 5’-6” with a 1” space between the rows.) 
 
 
TYPICAL UNIFORM LOAD OF BUILDING MATERIALS 
MATERIAL UNIFORM LOAD OR WEIGHT 
2x6 @ 16” o.c. 2 psf 
2x8 @ 16” o.c. 2.5 psf 
2x10 @ 16” o.c. 3 psf 
2x12 @ 16” o.c. 3.5 psf 
¾” Plywood 2.5 psf 
Batt Insulation 1 psf 
5/8” Gypsum Board 2.5 psf 
 
 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A9
PAGE 
In these examples, two sample PV panel installations are shown; the first includes a sloped roof and the second a flat roof.   
For this first example, each of the tables/forms is completed for a sloped roof with a mechanically attached system. 
BUILDING INFORMATION:  
BUILDING ADDRESS Anywhere Chicago but not within 600 feet of the Lake 
BUILDING HEIGHT 35 ft. Not to exceed 55 feet to be considered 
within the expedited permit process. 
BUILDING MAXIMUM LENGTH 44 ft. The maximum plan dimension of the 
building. 
BUILDING WIDTH 20 ft. The minimum plan dimension of the 
building. 
ROOF SLOPE 12:12 
The slope must be 1.5:12 (7 degrees) 
or less to be considered flat.              
(0 degrees = flat.) 
 
 
We, as the Property Owner and General Contractor, c ertify that the information provided herein and the  statements made are true, and 
understand that the Department of Buildings has the  right to revocation and penalties (as listed in th e Easy Permit Application 
certification statements) in the event that the sta tements made regarding this criteria information ha ve been falsified or is determined to 
be inaccurate. 
 
Single Family Residence Owner 
_________________________________ _________________ ________________ _____________ 
Property Owner’s Name Property Owner’s Signature   Date 
 
PV Installer Construction 
_________________________________ _________________ ________________ _____________ 
General Contractor’s Name General Contractor Signat ure   Date 
 
 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A10
PAGE 
 
ZONING INFORMATION: 
CATEGORY DATA ZONING REQUIRMENTS 
LANDMARK 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on a national or state 
landmark?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be used.) 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on a city designated 
landmark?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be used.) 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on located in a code 
orange or red landmark district?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be 
used.) 
LOCATION ON 
BUILDING South facing surface of gable roof.  
Define specifically, where on the building the PV panels are to be located.  
(PV panels must be installed on a defined, permitted rooftop. If in the 
residential zoning district, the PV panels must be located on the property’s 
principal structure.) 
TOP SLOPED 
PANEL 
SURFACE 
ABOVE FLAT 
ROOF DECK 
Top or Upper 
Panel Edge N/A State the dimension that the upper and lower edges of the sloped PV panel 
extend above the roof surface.  (If installed on a flat rooftop, no part of the PV 
panel system may exceed 9 feet in overall height, or extend 5 feet above the 
building parapet, whichever is less.) Bottom or Lower 
Panel Edge N/A 
TOP PANEL 
SURFACE 
ABOVE 
SLOPED ROOF 
DECK 
8” to top surface of panel  
State the dimension between the top of the roof surface and the top of the PV 
panel. 
(If installed on an inclined or sloped roof, the PV panels must be attached to 
and mounted parallel with the roof.  The top surface of the PV panels shall not 
be more than 12 inches from the roof deck at any point.  No portion of the PV 
panels shall extend above the ridgeline of the roof at any point.)  
POLICY 
COMPLIANCE 
 
       Yes      No 
Does the PV panel system adhere to all of the guidelines of the City of 
Chicago's Solar Zoning Policy? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X  
  X 
 X 
 X 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A11
PAGE 
 
BUILDING ADDRESS:  Required Information: 
• Roof Plane with Overall Dimensions 
• Location of Roof Plane on Building 
• PV Panels (Show Individual Panels and Rows) 
• Edge Distance Between PV Panels and Roof 
Edge 
• End Distance Between PV Panels and Roof Edge 
 
• Distance Between Rows of PV Panels 
• Distance Between Adjacent PV Panels 
• Side or End Elevation of Building Showing Roof 
Slope and PV Panel Locations 
• North Arrow 
 
OWNER: DOB Example 
DRAWN BY:  DATE:  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
  
12 
12 
TWO ROWS OF 
PV PANELS 
3'-0" 
PARTIAL ELEVATION 
2x8 RAFTER @ 16" o.c. 
PHOTOVOLTAIC PANEL (TYP.) 
SUPPORT RAIL 
RAIL ATTACHMENT 
SUPPORT SPACING @ 32" O.C. 
SOUTH FACING ROOF SURFACE 
3'-0" 
6'-0" 
15'-6" 
44'-0" 
N
2'-3" 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A12
PAGE 
 
ELECTRICAL INFORMATION: 
REQUIRED 
INFORMATION  DATA REQUIREMENTS 
INVERTER 
TYPE Fronius IG 4000W Grid Tied Inverter IG 4000 Manufacturer and model number 
INVERTER 
OUTPUT 4 kW System’s inverter output is 13.44 kW or less (maximum 
size for 70-amp breaker) 
PV PANEL TYPE SunPower SPR-327NE-WHT-D Manufacturer and model number 
PV PANEL 
OUTPUT 327 W Maximum watt output per panel 
NUMBER OF 
PANELS 12  Total number of panels in installation 
TOTAL PV 
PANEL OUTPUT (327 W)(12) = 3924 W Multiply the number of panels times the output per panel 
ELECTRICAL 
CONTRACTOR PV Installer Electrical Contractor 
Must be a licensed electrician in good standing with the 
City of Chicago and has certified PV panel system 
installation.   
COMPONENT 
COMPLIANCE 
 
    Yes      No 
Do all electrical components comply with the Chicago 
Electrical Code (18-27, Article 690)? Yes/No. 
 
    Yes      No  
Are all electrical components (or equipment), including 
panels and inverters, listed and labeled by a Nationally 
Recognized Testing Laboratory (as per 18-27-110.2) and 
have all components been installed as per the 
manufacturer’s instructions? Yes/No. 
 
Provide below, or on a separate sheet, a one line electrical diagram of PV panel electrical system. 
 
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
Address:  Anywhere Chicago…   Permit No.:  From EPP Desk  
X  
X  
PV MODULES IN 
SERIES SOURCE CIRCUIT 
J - BOX COMBINER 
DISCONNECT 
DC INVERTER 
AC 
DC 
PV MODULES IN 
SERIES SOURCE CIRCUIT 
PV MODULES IN 
SERIES SOURCE CIRCUIT 
PV MODULES IN 
SERIES SOURCE CIRCUIT 
M
DISCONNECT 
AC 
G
MAIN 
SERVICE 
PANEL 
M
MAIN 
OCPD 
INVERTER 
OCPD 
COMMONWEALTH 
EDISON 
4
4
4
0
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A13
PAGE 
 
PV PANEL & SUPPORT FRAME : 
PV PANEL DATA REMARKS 
MANUFACTURER SunPower SPR-327NE-WHT-D Manufacturer and product number 
PANEL 
WATTAGE 327 W Maximum watt output per panel 
NUMBER OF 
PANELS 
Number of 
Rows Number per Row 
Number of panels per group or roof surface 
2 6 
PANEL 
DIMENSIONS 
Length Width Area 
Length & width (in.) and area (sq. ft.) 
61.4 in. 41.2 in. 17.6 sq. ft. 
PANEL WEIGHT 41 lbs. Weight of individual panel (lbs) 
PANEL SPACING 
Sides Top Bottom The side spacing is the space between adjacent panels in a row.  The 
top and bottom spacing is the distance between rows of panels.  If 
there is no row above or below, state not applicable (N/A). 0.5 in. 12 in. 0 in. 
TYPE OF 
SUPPORT RAILS SolarMount Beam, Clamps & Clips Manufacturer and part or model number 
ANCHOR BOLTS 
OR FASTENERS 3/8 in. x 4 in Lag Screw Size and/or manufacturer’s part number 
SUPPORT RAIL 
ATTACHMENT 
SPACING 
32 in. on center Equal to multiple of joist, rafter or truss spacing 
ANGLE OF 
PANEL TO ROOF 
SURFACE 
0 deg. Provide angle in degrees from the roof surface. 
BALLAST TYPE 
& WEIGHT 0 lbs. If PV panels & frames are to be ballasted, then provide total load per 
panel.  If mechanically attached state 0 lbs. 
PANEL AND RAIL 
UNIFORM LOAD 3.5 psf 
Uniform dead load of panel and panel support system, as determined 
by dividing the weight of the panel and support rails by the panel 
area, in pounds per square foot (psf) 
 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A14
PAGE 
 
WIND LOADS : 
BUILDING 
CODE 
SECTION 
CODE PROVISION WIND PRESSURE 
 
For PV panels mounted flat to the roof surface, the provisions of CBC Section 13-52-310(b) may be used for the determination 
of the wind load on the panels even though reference is made to “roof framing.”  The wind load provisions of ASCE 7 for 
Components and Cladding provide more appropriate loads for PV panels mounted flat to the roof surface and should be used. 
For PV panels mounted parallel to a flat or sloped roof. 
CBC Table 
13-52-310 
Table 13-52-310 Column A: For buildings of 200 feet or less the design wind 
pressure is 20 psf 
 
CBC 
Section 13-
52-310(b) 
(b) Roof 
Structures Over 
Enclosed 
Building Or 
Other 
Structures. 
All main roof 
framing 
structures shall 
be designed and 
constructed for 
the following 
pressures: 
1. Flat roofs: an outward pressure acting normal to the surface 
equal to 75 percent of those established in Table 13-52-310, 
Column (A) for the corresponding mean height of the roof and 
applied to the entire roof area. 
 
2. Sloped roof, slope equal to or less than 30 degrees: an 
outward pressure acting normal to the surface equal to 100 
percent on the windward side and 75 percent on the leeward 
side of those established in Table 13-52-310, Column (A) for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
3. Sloped roofs, slope greater than 30 degrees: an inward 
pressure acting normal to the surface equal to 100 percent on 
the windward side and an outward pressure acting normal to the 
surface equal to 75 percent on the leeward side of those 
established in Table 13-52-310, Column (A) for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
+20 psf windward 
-15 psf leeward 
5. Roofing sheathing and membranes: an outward pressure 
acting normal to the surface equal to the pressures set forth in 
Section 13-52-310b.1, b.2 and b.3 except within an area at the 
edge of the roof equal to ten percent of the width of the 
structure parallel to the wind direction being considered, 
outward pressure equal to 200 percent of those established in 
Table 13-52-310, Column (A) as set out in this section, for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
Figure 6-
11B 
Roof edge zone is 10% of the least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, 
whichever is smaller but not less than either 4% of least 
horizontal dimension or 3 ft. where h is the mean height of the 
building 
3 ft. 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.6 
Wind Exposure B for majority of the City except Exposure D within 600 feet (or 20 
times the building height) of Lake Michigan 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.10 
The wind velocity pressure is based upon the expression  
qh = 0.00256KzKzt KdV2I , where:  
 
Basic Wind Speed:    From Figure 6-1, V =  90 mph 
Structure Classification:    From Table 1-1, the structure is 
classified as Category: II 
Importance Factor:    From Table 6-1, I =  1.0 
Wind Directionality Factor:    From Table 6-4, Kd = 0.85 
Exposure Category:    From Section 6.5.6, the exposure 
category is: B 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A15
PAGE 
Topographical Effect:    From Section 6.5.7, Kzt  = 1.0 
For PV panels mounted parallel to a flat or sloped roof. 
Velocity Pressure 
Coefficient:    
From Section 6.5.6.4 and Table 6-
3 for a height of _35 _ ft. and 
exposure _B_, Kz = 
0.73 
 Wind Velocity Pressure qh = 0.00256KzKzt KdV2I =    12.87 psf 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.12.4 
The design wind pressure on components and cladding is based upon the 
expression p = qh [( GC p) − (GC pi  )], where: 
 
Internal Pressure 
Coefficient: From Figure 6-5 GC pi  = +/-0.18  
Gust Effect 
Factor: 
The gust effect factor for components and cladding GC p is 
determined from Figures 6-11B through 6-17 for the applicable 
roof type and slope (where θθ θθ is the angle of the roof from the 
horizontal.) 
 
For a Gable Roof 
From Figure 6-
11B for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from  
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where θθ θθ < 7 o and a tributary area of 
____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
θθ θθ < 7 o and a tributary area of ____ 
ft 2, GC p =  
  
From Figure 6-
11C for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where 7 o < θθ θθ < 27 o and a tributary 
area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
7o < θθ θθ < 27 o and a tributary area of 
____ ft 2, GC p =  
  
From Figure 6-
11D for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where 27 o < θθ θθ < 45 o and a tributary 
area of _20 _ ft 2, GC p = 
-0.9 -13.9 psf at center 
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
27 o < θθ θθ < 45 o and a tributary area of 
_20 _ ft 2, GC p =  
-1.1 -16.47 psf at edge but 
not corner 
For Other Roof 
Configuration 
From Figure      
______ 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of roof surface and a 
tributary area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of roof surface and a 
tributary area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels mounted at an angle to a flat roof, the Wind Velocity Pressure must be determined from Section 6.5.10 of ASCE 7 
and the appropriate factors and coefficients must be obtained from SEAOC PV2-2012, as listed below, to obtain the Design 
Wind Pressure. 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A16
PAGE 
SEAOC 
PV2-2012 
The width of the edge zone is defined as 2a pv.  apv  is defined as  
0.5(hW L)0.5  but need not exceed h.  Where, h = the mean roof height of 
the building and W L = longest plan dimension of the building.   
  
 
From Figure 29.9-1, the net pressure normal to the surface of the PV panel is based 
upon the expression p = q h(γγ γγpγγ γγc(GC m)nom )E , where: 
 
Velocity Pressure: From ASCE 7-05 Section 6-5-10, q h =  
For PV panels mounted at an angle to a flat roof. 
Angle of Panel to Roof 
Surface 
As illustrated in Figure 29.9-1, the angle of 
the panel to the roof surface is:    
Parapet Height Factor: From Figure 29.9-1 for a parapet height of 
____, γγ γγp =  
Panel Chord Length 
Factor: 
From Figure 29.9-1 for a panel angle of 
____, γγ γγc =  
Characteristic Height From Figure 29.9-1 h c = min(h 1, 1ft) + 
lpsin( ωω ωω) =   
Ratio of Edge Distance to 
Characteristic Height 
Controlling ratio of panel - roof edge 
distance to panel characteristic height, 
dx/h c = 
 
Location of Panel Being 
Considered 
Row of the array that the panel is located 
(i.e. North, South, or Interior)  
Location of panel within row (i.e. East end, 
West end, or Interior)  
Array Edge Factor From Figure 29.9-1, for the location of the 
panel within the array, E =  
Roof Zone: From Figure 29.9-1, the roof zone for the 
panels is:  
Building Coefficient From Figure 29.9-1, a pv  =  
Effective Wind Area: 
From Figure 29.9 -1, the effective wind area 
for the structural element ________ being 
designed is: 
 
Normalized Wind Area: From Figure 29.9-1, the normalized wind 
area A n =  
Nominal Pressure 
Coefficient: 
From Figure 29.9-1, the nominal net 
pressure coefficient (GC m)nom  = 
 
Design Wind Pressure: p = q h(γγ γγpγγ γγc(GC m)nom )E =   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A17
PAGE 
 
PV PANEL ATTACHMENT : 
REQUIRED INFORMATION DATA REMARKS 
TRIBUTARY AREA PER 
ATTACHMENT BOLT 
(ft 2/bolt) 
(6)(17.6 sq. ft.)/18 =           
5.9 sq. ft. 
Number of panels in a row x panel area / number of bolts 
UPLIFT FORCE PER BOLT 
(lbs) 
(5.9 sq. ft.)(16.47 psf) =  
96.6 lb. 
Tributary area per bolt x wind uplift pressure 
BOLT PULLOUT CAPACITY 
(lbs) >200 lbs 
Pullout strength is based upon the National Design Specification 
manufacturer’s literature and species of wood joist, rafter or truss top 
chord.  (An increase in allowable stress or capacity of 1.33 for transient 
wind loads is not allowed.)  Anchorage capacity must include a factor of 
safety of 1.5 as discussed below. 
BOLT PULLOUT CAPACITY 
GREATER THAN WIND 
UPLIFT 
  
   Yes        No 
Yes or no.  If no, revise bolt size and or spacing.  
X  
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A18
PAGE 
 
EXISTING CONCRETE ROOF CONSTRUCTION :   
ROOF FRAMING TYPE N/A 
 
Flat slab, slab and beam or joists 
SLAB THICKNESS OR JOIST DEPTH   
JOIST/BEAM WIDTH   
JOIST/BEAM SPACING (in.)   
SPAN (ft.)  For two-way slab, list span in both 
directions 
 
 
 
 
EXISTING STRUCTURAL STEEL ROOF CONSTRUCTION :   
ROOF FLAT OR SLOPED 
N/A 
 
Provide roof slope (in./12 in.) and 
degrees or 0 if none or flat 
αα αα = tan(rise/run) and is the angle of the 
roof plane from the horizontal 
FRAMING TYPE  Joists, trusses or beams 
DECK TYPE  Concrete and/or metal deck 
JOIST, TRUSS OR BEAM SPACING 
(in.)   
SPAN (ft.)  Joist, rafter or truss span. (Horizontal 
projection) 
 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A19
PAGE 
 
EXISTING WOOD ROOF CONSTRUCTION :   
ROOF FLAT OR SLOPED 
12:12 
αα αα = 45 degrees 
 
Provide roof slope (in./12 in.) and degrees 
or 0 if none or flat 
αα αα = atan(rise/run) and is the angle of the 
roof plane from the horizontal 
FRAMING TYPE Rafter Joists/rafters or trusses 
WOOD SPECIES AND GRADE Douglas Fir Larch No. 1 If unknown, use SPF No. 2 
JOIST/RAFTER OR TRUSS SPACING  16 in. o.c. Units = inches (in.) 
SPAN (ft.) 10 ft. Joist, rafter or truss span. (Horizontal 
projection) 
  WEIGHT 
(psf)  
JOIST/RAFTER OR TOP CHORD SIZE. 2x8 2 Size of lumber 
SHEATHING TYPE Spaced sheathing 2.5 Plywood or lumber 
ROOFING 
TYPE Asphalt shingles 
3 Total roofing load 
NUMBER OF LAYERS 1 
CEILING Gypsum board 2.5  
INSULATION Fiberglass batt 1  
OTHER Wood furring & electrical 3 Other materials including mechanical and 
electrical equipment 
BALLAST  0 Ballast to resist wind loads on PV panel 
system, if used 
  
DEAD LOAD SUBTOTAL 14 Dead load per square foot of roof surface 
SNOW  
 
25 
Minimum snow load of 25 psf required by 
the CBC, plus drifting as defined in ASCE 
7-05  (See Note 1.) 
 TOTAL DEAD & LIVE LOAD 39 
Total dead and live load to be supported 
by existing structure along length of 
member 
LIVE LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING 25 psf x 1.33 ft. 33.33 Live or snow load per lineal foot of member (plf) 
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF DEAD 
LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING 14 psf x 1.33 ft / cos( αα αα) 26.4  
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF PV 
PANEL DEAD LOAD TIMES SUPPORT 
SPACING 
3.5 psf x 1.33 x 2 / cos( αα αα) 13.2 
Uniform load of PV panel times support spacing and 
divided by the cosine of the roof angle (The PV panel 
load is assumed over full length of member.) (plf) 
TOTAL PROJECTED DEAD, PV 
PANEL & LIVE LOAD SUPPORTED BY 
MEMBER 
 
73 Sum of dead, PV panel and live loads (plf) 
STRUCTURAL LOAD CAPACITY 
 
N/A Maximum load capacity of the wood roof rafters, 
joists or trusses calculated separately (plf) 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A20
PAGE 
ALTERNATE – USE TABLES TO 
DETERMINE MAXIMUM SPAN 
    
 
     Yes        No 12.2 ft. 
State whether tables are being used and 
provide the maximum span listed in 
tables. (ft.) 
IS THE EXISTING WOOD STRUCTURE 
ADEQUATE TO SUPPORT THE 
ADDITIONAL LOAD DUE TO THE NEW 
PV PANEL SYSTEM? 
   
 
 Yes       No 
If the structure is not adequate to support 
the additional load, then provide drawings 
and calculations to show how the 
structure is to be reinforced. 
 
1. 
A reduction in snow load, as per CBC Section 13-52-280(b), was not considered for this example with a sloped roof. 
 
 
X  
X  
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A21
PAGE 
 
The following is the second example and is provided to illustrate the differences in calculating the wind load on a bolt, given a flat roof.  
The General, Zoning, and Electrical information are the same as that listed above except that the roof slope is 0:12 and the PV panels 
are mounted at an angle of 5 degrees from the roof surface. 
 
 
ZONING INFORMATION: 
CATEGORY DATA ZONING REQUIRMENTS 
LANDMARK 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on a national or state 
landmark?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be used.) 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on a city designated 
landmark?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be used.) 
 
       Yes      No  
Is the building that the PV panel system to be mounted on located in a code 
orange or red landmark district?  (If yes, then the expedited process cannot be 
used.) 
LOCATION ON 
BUILDING Maim flat roof  
Define specifically, where on the building the PV panels are to be located.  
(PV panels must be installed on a defined, permitted rooftop. If in the 
residential zoning district, the PV panels must be located on the property’s 
principal structure.) 
TOP SLOPED 
PANEL 
SURFACE 
ABOVE FLAT 
ROOF DECK 
Top or Upper 
Panel Edge 13.4 in. State the dimension that the upper and lower edges of the sloped PV panel 
extend above the roof surface.  (If installed on a flat rooftop, no part of the PV 
panel system may exceed 9 feet in overall height, or extend 5 feet above the 
building parapet, whichever is less.) Bottom or Lower 
Panel Edge 8 in. 
TOP PANEL 
SURFACE 
ABOVE 
SLOPED ROOF 
DECK 
N/A  
State the dimension between the top of the roof surface and the top of the PV 
panel. 
(If installed on an inclined or sloped roof, the PV panels must be attached to 
and mounted parallel with the roof.  The top surface of the PV panels shall not 
be more than 12 inches from the roof deck at any point.  No portion of the PV 
panels shall extend above the ridgeline of the roof at any point.)  
POLICY 
COMPLIANCE 
 
       Yes      No 
Does the PV panel system adhere to all of the guidelines of the City of 
Chicago's Solar Zoning Policy? 
 
X  
  X 
 X 
 X 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A22
PAGE 
 
BUILDING ADDRESS:  Required Information: 
• Roof Plane with Overall Dimensions 
• Location of Roof Plane on Building 
• PV Panels (Show Individual Panels and Rows) 
• Edge Distance Between PV Panels and Roof 
Edge 
• End Distance Between PV Panels and Roof Edge 
 
• Distance Between Rows of PV Panels 
• Distance Between Adjacent PV Panels 
• Side or End Elevation of Building Showing Roof 
Slope and PV Panel Locations 
• North Arrow 
 
OWNER: DOB Example 
DRAWN BY:  DATE:  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
  
 
 
 
2x8 RAFTER @ 16" o.c. 
PHOTOVOLTAIC PANEL (TYP.) 
SUPPORT RAIL 
RAIL ATTACHMENT 
SUPPORT SPACING @ 32" O.C. 
ROOF PLAN 
3'-0" 
6'-0" 
20'-0" 
44'-0" 
N
6'-8-1/2" 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A23
PAGE 
 
PV PANEL & SUPPORT FRAME : 
PV PANEL DATA REMARKS 
MANUFACTURER SunPower SPR-327NE-WHT-D Manufacturer and product number 
PANEL 
WATTAGE 327 W Maximum watt output per panel 
NUMBER OF 
PANELS 
Number of 
Rows Number per Row 
Number of panels per group or roof surface 
2 6 
PANEL 
DIMENSIONS 
Length Width Area 
Length & width (in.) and area (sq. ft.) 
61.4 in. 41.2 in. 17.6 sq. ft. 
PANEL WEIGHT 41 lbs. Weight of individual panel (lbs) 
PANEL SPACING 
Sides Top Bottom The side spacing is the space between adjacent panels in a row.  The 
top and bottom spacing is the distance between rows of panels.  If 
there is no row above or below, state not applicable (N/A). 0.5 in. 12 in. 0 in. 
TYPE OF 
SUPPORT RAILS SolarMount Beam, Clamps & Clips Manufacturer and part or model number 
ANCHOR BOLTS 
OR FASTENERS 3/8 in. x 4 in Lag Screw Size and/or manufacturer’s part number 
SUPPORT RAIL 
ATTACHMENT 
SPACING 
32 in. on center Equal to multiple of joist, rafter or truss spacing 
ANGLE OF 
PANEL TO ROOF 
SURFACE 
5 deg. Provide angle in degrees from the roof surface. 
BALLAST TYPE 
& WEIGHT 0 lbs. If PV panels & frames are to be ballasted, then provide total load per 
panel.  If mechanically attached state 0 lbs. 
PANEL AND RAIL 
UNIFORM LOAD 3.5 psf 
Uniform dead load of panel and panel support system, as determined 
by dividing the weight of the panel and support rails by the panel 
area, in pounds per square foot (psf) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A24
PAGE 
WIND LOADS : 
BUILDING 
CODE 
SECTION 
CODE PROVISION WIND PRESSURE 
 
For PV panels mounted flat to the roof surface, the provisions of CBC Section 13-52-310(b) may be used for the determination 
of the wind load on the panels even though reference is made to “roof framing.”  The wind load provisions of ASCE 7 for 
Components and Cladding provide more appropriate loads for PV panels mounted flat to the roof surface and should be used. 
For PV panels mounted parallel to a flat or sloped roof. 
CBC Table 
13-52-310 
Table 13-52-310 Column A: For buildings of 200 feet or less the design wind 
pressure is 20 psf 
 
CBC 
Section 13-
52-310(b) 
(b) Roof 
Structures Over 
Enclosed 
Building Or 
Other 
Structures. 
All main roof 
framing 
structures shall 
be designed and 
constructed for 
the following 
pressures: 
1. Flat roofs: an outward pressure acting normal to the surface 
equal to 75 percent of those established in Table 13-52-310, 
Column (A) for the corresponding mean height of the roof and 
applied to the entire roof area. 
 
2. Sloped roof, slope equal to or less than 30 degrees: an 
outward pressure acting normal to the surface equal to 100 
percent on the windward side and 75 percent on the leeward 
side of those established in Table 13-52-310, Column (A) for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
3. Sloped roofs, slope greater than 30 degrees: an inward 
pressure acting normal to the surface equal to 100 percent on 
the windward side and an outward pressure acting normal to the 
surface equal to 75 percent on the leeward side of those 
established in Table 13-52-310, Column (A) for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
5. Roofing sheathing and membranes: an outward pressure 
acting normal to the surface equal to the pressures set forth in 
Section 13-52-310b.1, b.2 and b.3 except within an area at the 
edge of the roof equal to ten percent of the width of the 
structure parallel to the wind direction being considered, 
outward pressure equal to 200 percent of those established in 
Table 13-52-310, Column (A) as set out in this section, for the 
corresponding mean height of the roof. 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
Figure 6-
11B 
Roof edge zone is 10% of the least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, 
whichever is smaller but not less than either 4% of least 
horizontal dimension or 3 ft. where h is the mean height of the 
building 
3 ft. 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.6 
Wind Exposure B for majority of the City except Exposure D within 600 feet (or 20 
times the building height) of Lake Michigan 
 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.10 
The wind velocity pressure is based upon the expression  
qh = 0.00256KzKzt KdV2I , where:  
 
Basic Wind Speed:    From Figure 6-1, V =  90 mph 
Structure Classification:    From Table 1-1, the structure is 
classified as Category: II 
Importance Factor:    From Table 6-1, I =  1.0 
Wind Directionality Factor:    From Table 6-4, Kd = 0.85 
Exposure Category:    From Section 6.5.6, the exposure 
category is: B 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A25
PAGE 
Topographical Effect:    From Section 6.5.7, Kzt  = 1.0 
For PV panels mounted parallel to a flat or sloped roof. 
Velocity Pressure 
Coefficient:    
From Section 6.5.6.4 and Table 6-
3 for a height of _35_  ft. and 
exposure _B_ , Kz = 
0.73 
 Wind Velocity Pressure qh = 0.00256KzKzt KdV2I =    12.87 psf 
ASCE 7-05 
Section 
6.5.12.4 
The design wind pressure on components and cladding is based upon the 
expression p = qh [( GC p) − (GC pi  )], where: 
 
Internal Pressure 
Coefficient: From Figure 6-5 GC pi  = +/-0.18  
Gust Effect 
Factor: 
The gust effect factor for components and cladding GC p is 
determined from Figures 6-11B through 6-17 for the applicable 
roof type and slope (where θθ θθ is the angle of the roof from the 
horizontal.) 
 
For a Gable Roof 
From Figure 6-
11B for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from  
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where θθ θθ < 7 o and a tributary area of 
____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
θθ θθ < 7 o and a tributary area of ____ 
ft 2, GC p =  
  
From Figure 6-
11C for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where 7 o < θθ θθ < 27 o and a tributary 
area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
7o < θθ θθ < 27 o and a tributary area of 
____ ft 2, GC p =  
  
From Figure 6-
11D for a 
building less 
than 60 ft. 
high 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of a gable roof surface 
where 27 o < θθ θθ < 45 o and a tributary 
area of _20 _ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of a gable roof surface where 
27 o < θθ θθ < 45 o and a tributary area of 
_20 _ ft 2, GC p =  
  
For Other Roof 
Configuration 
From Figure      
______ 
For PV panels located away from 
the edge of roof surface and a 
tributary area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels located within the 
edge of roof surface and a 
tributary area of ____ ft 2, GC p = 
  
For PV panels mounted at an angle to a flat roof, the Wind Velocity Pressure must be determined from Section 6.5.10 of ASCE 7 
and the appropriate factors and coefficients must be obtained from SEAOC PV2-2012, as listed below, to obtain the Design 
Wind Pressure. 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A26
PAGE 
SEAOC 
PV2-2012 
The width of the edge zone is defined as 2a pv.  apv  is defined as  
0.5(hW L)0.5  but need not exceed h.  Where, h = the mean roof height of 
the building and W L = longest plan dimension of the building.   
39.2 ft.  
 
From Figure 29.9-1, the net pressure normal to the surface of the PV panel is based 
upon the expression p = q h(γγ γγpγγ γγc(GC m)nom )E , where: 
 
Velocity Pressure: From ASCE 7-05 Section 6-5-10, q h = 12.87 psf 
For PV panels mounted at an angle to a flat roof. 
Angle of Panel to Roof 
Surface 
As illustrated in Figure 29.9-1, the angle of 
the panel to the roof surface is:   5o 
Parapet Height Factor: From Figure 29.9-1 for a parapet height of 
_2 ft._ , γγ γγp = 1.0 
Panel Chord Length 
Factor: 
From Figure 29.9-1 for a panel angle of     
_5 deg. , γγ γγc = 1.0 
Characteristic Height From Figure 29.9-1 h c = min(h 1, 1ft) + 
lpsin( ωω ωω) =  1.11 ft. 
Ratio of Edge Distance to 
Characteristic Height 
Controlling ratio of panel - roof edge 
distance to panel characteristic height, 
dx/h c = 
6.0 
Location of Panel Being 
Considered 
Row of the array that the panel is located 
(i.e. North, South, or Interior) S 
Location of panel within row (i.e. East end, 
West end, or Interior) I 
Array Edge Factor From Figure 29.9-1, for the location of the 
panel within the array, E = 1.3 
Roof Zone: From Figure 29.9-1, the roof zone for the 
panels is: 2 
Building Coefficient From Figure 29.9-1, a pv  = 19.6 ft 
Effective Wind Area: From Figure 29.9-1, the effective wind area 
for the structural element __bolt__  being 
designed is: 
5.9 ft. 2 
Normalized Wind Area: From Figure 29.9-1, the normalized wind 
area A n = 19.1 ft. 2 
Nominal Pressure 
Coefficient: 
From Figure 29.9-1, the nominal net 
pressure coefficient (GC m)nom  = 1.32 
Design Wind Pressure: p = q h(γγ γγpγγ γγc(GC m)nom)E =  22.1 psf 
  22.1 psf 
 
Note: The edge factor “E” varies for panels at vari ous locations on the roof and within the array.  Th e above value is for panels within the southernmost  
row, but not at the edges of that row.  A complete evaluation of the wind loads on the PV panels requi res an analysis of each unique panel location.  
(See the discussion in SEAOC PV2-2012 Appendix A.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A27
PAGE 
 
PV PANEL ATTACHMENT : 
REQUIRED INFORMATION DATA REMARKS 
TRIBUTARY AREA PER 
ATTACHMENT BOLT 
(ft 2/bolt) 
(6)(17.6 sq. ft.)/18  =           
5.9 sq. ft. 
Number of panels in a row x panel area / number of bolts 
UPLIFT FORCE PER BOLT 
(lbs) 
(5.9 sq. ft.)(22.1 psf)  =  
130.4 lb. 
Tributary area per bolt x wind uplift pressure 
BOLT PULLOUT CAPACITY 
(lbs) >200 lbs Pullout strength based upon manufacturer’s literature and species of 
wood joist, rafter or truss top chord  
BOLT PULLOUT CAPACITY 
GREATER THAN WIND 
UPLIFT 
  
   Yes        No 
Yes or no.  If no, revise bolt size and or spacing. 
 
 
 
X  
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A28
PAGE 
 
EXISTING WOOD ROOF CONSTRUCTION :   
ROOF FLAT OR SLOPED 
0:12 
αα αα = 0 degrees 
 
Provide roof slope (in./12 in.) and degrees 
or 0 if none or flat 
αα αα = atan(rise/run) and is the angle of the 
roof plane from the horizontal 
FRAMING TYPE Joist Joists/rafters or trusses 
WOOD SPECIES AND GRADE Douglas Fir Larch No. 1 If unknown, use SPF No. 2 
JOIST/RAFTER OR TRUSS SPACING  16 in. o.c. Units = inches (in.) 
SPAN (ft.) 20 ft. Joist, rafter or truss span. (Horizontal 
projection) 
  WEIGHT 
(psf)  
JOIST/RAFTER OR TOP CHORD SIZE. 2x12 3.5 Size of lumber 
SHEATHING TYPE Spaced sheathing 2.5 Plywood or lumber 
ROOFING 
TYPE Single Ply Membrane 
1 Total roofing load 
NUMBER OF LAYERS 1 
CEILING Gypsum board 2.5  
INSULATION Rigid Polyisocyanurate 1  
OTHER Wood furring, mechanical & electrical 3.5 Other materials including mechanical and 
electrical equipment 
BALLAST  0 Ballast to resist wind loads on PV panel 
system, if used 
  
DEAD LOAD SUBTOTAL 14 Dead load per square foot of roof surface 
SNOW  
 
25 
Minimum snow load of 25 psf required by 
the CBC, plus drifting as defined in ASCE 
7-05 
 TOTAL DEAD & LIVE LOAD 39 
Total dead and live load to be supported 
by existing structure along length of 
member 
LIVE LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING 25 psf x 1.33 ft. 33.33 Live or snow load per lineal foot of member (plf) 
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF DEAD 
LOAD TIMES MEMBER SPACING 14 psf x 1.33 ft / cos( αα αα) 18.62  
HORIZONTAL PROJECTION OF PV 
PANEL DEAD LOAD TIMES SUPPORT 
SPACING 
3.5 psf x 1.33 x 2 / cos( αα αα) 9.31 
Uniform load of PV panel times support spacing and 
divided by the cosine of the roof angle (The PV panel 
load is assumed over full length of member.) (plf) 
TOTAL PROJECTED DEAD, PV 
PANEL & LIVE LOAD SUPPORTED BY 
MEMBER 
 
61 Sum of dead, PV panel and live loads (plf) 
STRUCTURAL LOAD CAPACITY 
 
N/A Maximum load capacity of the wood roof rafters, 
joists or trusses calculated separately (plf) 
 
      
Example  
2  
APPENDIX  
10. 21.13  
 A29
PAGE 
ALTERNATE – USE TABLES TO 
DETERMINE MAXIMUM SPAN 
    
 
     Yes        No 20.1 ft. 
State whether tables are being used and 
provide the maximum span listed in 
tables. (ft.) 
IS THE EXISTING WOOD STRUCTURE 
ADEQUATE TO SUPPORT THE 
ADDITIONAL LOAD DUE TO THE NEW 
PV PANEL SYSTEM? 
   
 
 Yes       No 
If the structure is not adequate to support 
the additional load, then provide drawings 
and calculations to show how the 
structure is to be reinforced. 
 
 
 
X  
X  
