--- SOURCE: http://www.cpace.com/ ---
c-pace
c-pace
C-PACE (Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy) is an is an innovative solution enabling all types of commercial properties to make green upgrades to new and existing buildings. Higher performing buildings are made possible thanks to an experienced contractor network and access to attractive financing repaid through a simple and secure repayment mechanism.
Property Owners and Developers
Visit our Buildings Solutions to find out how C-PACE can work for you.
Contractors
Visit our Contractor Solutions to find out how you can put C-PACE to work.
Capital Providers
Visit our Investment Solutions to find out how you can support green projects in Connecticut.
Municipalities
Visit our Community Solutions to find out how your town or city can benefit from C-PACE.
Appraisers
Find out how C-PACE can work for you.
Mortgage Holders
Find out how C-PACE can work for you.

--- SOURCE: https://www.ctgreenbank.com/home-solutions/solar/ ---
residential solar options
Lower your electricity costs with solar energy
Solar photovoltaics (PV) systems reliably maximize efficiency and performance to power your home with green energy. Current solar technology has a life span of 25+ years, so you can depend on your solar panels for years to come.
residential solar options
Lower your electricity costs with solar energy
Solar photovoltaics (PV) systems reliably maximize efficiency and performance to power your home with green energy. Current solar technology has a life span of 25+ years, so you can depend on your solar panels for years to come.
Is my home right for solar?
After you’ve had a home energy assessment completed and it’s determined that your house is suitable for solar panels, you’ll need to contact a contractor to review and discuss installation options. Something things to consider while sizing your system:
- Size and shape of your roof: A typical home system may require about 400 square feet of space to install solar panels.
- Direction of your roof: South-facing roofs are best, though east- and west-facing roofs can still be effective.
- Slope of your roof: If your roof is sloped, the best angle is between 25 and 40 degrees. Systems on roofs that are flat or ones that are mounted on the ground are fine, as long as the system is mounted between 15 and 40 degrees and tilted to face south.
- Shading of your roof: It is important that your roof isn’t blocked by tall trees or other obstructions to maximize electricity production.
Is there financing available to help me pay for solar?
Low-cost financing is available through a Smart-E Loan. You can even finance roof replacement if it’s necessary before your solar installation.
How much will I save?
Your potential savings depends on a number of factors:
- Roof size
- Exposure to the sun (and therefore how much energy your
system produces) - How much energy your home consumes
- The rates you would have paid if your electricity came
from your utility - Incentives
- Tax credits
As an example, let’s say your electric bill is typical for an average U.S. home: about $1,200 each year. And let’s assume your solar system produces 100% of the electric power you need. That’s $1,200 saved in the first year and potentially each year in the future – money that can be used to offset the monthly payment associated with the financing option you select for your solar system, as well as the remaining $15-$20 monthly utility fee for grid connection.
For an estimate specific to your home, you should work closely with your installer to understand how much energy your solar PV system should produce each year and how much it may save you on an annual basis.
Are there incentives for solar?
You may be eligible for the Residential Renewable Energy Solutions Program, which was launched by the Public Utilities Regulatory Agency (PURA) in 2022.

--- SOURCE: https://www.ctgreenbank.com/community-solutions/solar-solutions-for-communities/solar-map/ ---
solar marketplace assistance program plus (Solar MAP+)
solar marketplace assistance program
We can help you achieve your solar goals!
The Connecticut Green Bank is making it even easier for affordable multifamily housing providers, municipalities, and state agencies to navigate the solar marketplace to access renewable energy and achieve energy savings. By providing support that simplifies every step of the process, communities can realize all the benefits of going solar and adding battery storage – with fewer challenges and roadblocks than ever before.
Link to: Solar MAP+ for Affordable Multifamily Housingsolar MAP+
solar MAP+
for affordable multifamily housing →
We make it easier for affordable multifamily housing providers to access solar and storage to achieve cost savings by providing support that simplifies every step of the process.
Link to: Solar MAP for Towns and Citiessolar MAP+
solar MAP+
for towns and cities →
Solar MAP+ is the perfect program for towns or cities that don’t have the tools, resources, or experience to pursue energy saving options with solar and storage on their own. We can help.
Link to: Solar MAP for State Governmentsolar MAP+
solar MAP+
for state government →
The Green Bank is making it even easier for State of Connecticut buildings to access solar and storage.

--- SOURCE: https://www.ctgreenbank.com/building-solutions/solar-programs/ ---
solar programs
Solar PV systems maximize energy efficiency and performance—whether they are creating low-cost electricity to power their buildings or providing extra revenue through a roof lease. It’s a win-win! Building owners can cut costs, add new revenue streams, and modernize their buildings and help their communities by providing clean electricity to the grid.
solar programs
Solar PV systems maximize energy efficiency and performance—whether they are creating low-cost electricity to power their buildings or providing extra revenue through a roof lease. It’s a win-win! Building owners can cut costs, add new revenue streams, and modernize their buildings and help their communities by providing clean electricity to the grid.
solar programs
Solar PV systems maximize energy efficiency and performance—whether they are creating low-cost electricity to power their buildings or providing extra revenue through a roof lease. It’s a win-win! Building owners can cut costs, add new revenue streams, and modernize their buildings and help their communities by providing clean electricity to the grid.
The Green Bank offers three ways for building owners to go solar
Link to: Solar PPA
solar ppa →
The Solar Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) gives businesses and nonprofits an opportunity to go solar with no upfront installation costs, delivering immediate savings on electricity and offering peace of mind in knowing that an experienced third-party owns and operates your solar system to maximize its benefits.
Link to: Solar Roof Lease
solar roof lease →
With a Solar Roof Lease, your commercial building or nonprofit roof’s unused space becomes a revenue-producer. Leasing your roof space to the Green Bank to install a solar PV system means a reliable, worry-free tenant who puts lease payments in your account. And your roof helps put more renewable energy into the utility grid leading to a healthier future for all.
Link to: C-PACE
c-pace solar →
C-PACE lets building owners pay for green improvements or new construction over time, including solar. C-PACE makes it easier for building owners to secure low-interest capital to fund energy retrofits or build to higher efficiency standards.

--- SOURCE: https://www.ctgreenbank.com/building-solutions/solar-programs/solar-ppa/ ---
solar ppa
Lock in electricity costs now with no money down
Have you been wondering if solar could help lower your electricity costs? When every dollar matters, finding a way to control electricity costs can have a positive impact on your mission and bottom line. Through the Connecticut Green Bank’s Solar PPA you can go solar with no money down, and receive immediate savings on your electricity. A power purchase agreement, or PPA, allows you to purchase the electricity generated by the solar system on your building often at a significant discount to grid power. The Green Bank oversees the development and management of the system minimizing your worries.
| No upfront installation costs and no new debt |
Reduce your bill by locking in low electricity costs | Positive cash flow in year one |
solar ppa
Lock in electricity costs now with no money down
Have you been wondering if solar could help lower your electricity costs? When every dollar matters, finding a way to control electricity costs can have a positive impact on your mission and bottom line. Through the Connecticut Green Bank’s Solar PPA you can go solar with no money down, and receive immediate savings on your electricity. A power purchase agreement, or PPA, allows you to purchase the electricity generated by the solar system on your building often at a significant discount to grid power. The Green Bank oversees the development and management of the system minimizing your worries.
| No upfront installation costs and no new debt | Reduce your bill by locking in low electricity costs | Positive cash flow in year one |
With a PPA from the Green Bank you can:
- “Go solar” without any upfront costs or incurring any debt.
- Lock in low electricity costs and realize predictable energy production over the standard 20-year agreement term.
- See positive cash flow in year one.
- Let your customers, employees, residents, competitors, and community see that you’re making a positive impact on the environment by harnessing the power of the sun.
- Rest easy knowing that you don’t need to maintain the system or manage equipment and warranty issues.
- Have the option of purchasing the system at fair market value in the future.
- Transfer the PPA to a new building owner if you sell the property, possibly increasing the sales price of your building.
Eligibility requirements
- Commercial and nonprofit properties: Properties must meet C-PACE financing requirements or – on an exception basis – alternative underwriting criteria. All types of privately owned commercial properties (industrial, office, retail, agricultural, multifamily, faith-based institutions, recreational facilities, museums, and more) that are current on their property tax (if applicable) and assessment payments can use the C-PACE program to make energy improvements. Nonprofits can be assigned a tax identification number to make payments through the program.
- Municipal properties and other publicly owned institutions: Public properties and institutions can use the Green Bank Solar PPA to add solar to their buildings. Municipalities must have an investment grade credit rating in order to qualify, or otherwise subject to alternative underwriting criteria.
