--- SOURCE: http://www.mariettaga.gov/765/Rebates-Incentives ---
Rebates & Incentives
Residential Rebate Programs
In some cases, to participate in the rebate program, pre-verification of your existing and a final verification of the newly-installed equipment is required. For details about the program and to arrange for verification, contact the program administrator via email or by phone at (770) 794-5183.
(Please allow eight weeks for processing your rebate.)
Heat Pump Rebate
Receive a $150 rebate check when you replace an existing gas heating system in your home by installing a new electric or dual-fuel heat pump. See the incentive guideline (PDF)s for more details.
Toilet Rebate
Receive a one time rebate when you replace existing toilets with 1.1 gallon per flush (GPF) toilets or less. Use the link to submit your rebate application and upload receipts.
NOTE: After July 1, 2021, only WaterSense Ultra High Efficiency Toilets at 1.1 GPF or less per flush will be eligible for the rebate program. See application for more details.
Water Heater Rebate
Receive a $250 rebate check when you replace an existing, gas-water heater and install a new, electric-water heater. See the incentive guidelines (PDF) for more details.
Water Heater & Heat Pump Rebate
Receive a $500 rebate check when you replace an existing gas water heater and heating system as described above at the same time. See the incentive guidelines (PDF) for more details.
Energy Efficiency Rebate
Receive rebates for the purchase of Energy Star certified appliances, programmable thermostats, or water heater blankets. Use the link to submit your rebate application, upload receipts and other supporting documentation.
-
Power & Water
Physical Address
675 N. Marietta Parkway
Marietta, GA 30060
Phone: 770-794-5150
24-Hour Automated Account Inquiries
Phone: 770-794-5150
Emergency Number (Power)
Phone: 770-794-5160
Emergency Number (Water)
Phone: 770-794-5230
Hours
Monday - Friday
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.

--- SOURCE: https://www.mariettaga.gov/761/Programs-Products ---
This program applies to customers who want to sell electrical energy produced by solar, wind, or fuel cell technology to Marietta Power.
In some cases, to participate in the rebate program, pre-verification of your existing gas equipment and a final verification of the newly-installed, energy-efficient, electric equipment is required.
Several outdoor security lighting options and styles are available.

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.mariettaga.gov/DocumentCenter/View/9103 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OVERVIEW – Marietta Power offers incentives to our customers for the installation of 
electric and/or dual fuel heat pumps and electric water heaters subject to the 
requirements specified below. The incentive for the installation of an electric or dual fuel 
heap pump is $150 per unit.  The incentive for the installation of electric water heating is 
$250 per unit.  The combined incentive for each electric water heater and dual fuel or 
electric heat pump installed at the same time is $500.  
 
ELECTRIC AND/OR DUAL FUEL HEAT PUMP INCENTIVE GUIDELINES 
 
1. The electric or dual fuel heat pump must be installed in a newly constructed 
home or replace an existing residential gas heating system. 
2. The developer, owner, or builder must request to participate in this program 
before replacing or installing any new electric or dual fuel heat pumps and must 
enter into the program by signing our contract.  
3. The electric or dual fuel heat pump being installed must be new; used heat 
pumps do not qualify. 
4. The electric or dual fuel heat pump being installed must satisfy the following 
criteria: 
a. It must have an energy efficient air-conditioning SEER rating of 13.00. 
b. It must have a minimum heat pump HSPF of 7.7. 
c. The unit must come with a 5-year warranty. 
d. The heat pump must be properly sized (approximately 1 ton per 700 
square feet of heated living space) and must be rated a minimum of 1.5 
tons to qualify. 
• It must serve as the primary heat source for the majority of the 
dwelling. 
• The switchover setting must be set between 35 and 40 degrees. 
5. If the sizing of the unit is outside our specifications, the developer, owner, or 
builder will be required to provide load calculations for total capacity.  
6. The developer, owner, or builder must schedule, with a BLW employee, an 
inspection date for the unit once the electric or dual fuel heat pump has been 
installed. 
 
The incentive will be paid only once per dwelling and only after all requirements  
of this program have been satisfied.  The BLW employee will only submit a check 
request after a completed final inspection.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ELECTRIC WATER HEATER GUIDELINES 
 
7. The electric water heater must be installed in a newly constructed home or 
replace an existing residential gas water heater. 
8. The developer, owner, or builder must request to participate in this program 
before replacing or installing any new electric water heaters and must enter into 
the program by signing our contract.  
9. The electric water heater being installed must be new; used water heaters do not 
qualify. 
10. The electric water heater being installed must satisfy the following criteria: 
a. Uniform Energy Factor minimum of 0.90 
b. 5-year warranty. 
c.  Tank size must be 40 gallons or larger. 
d. Insulation rating of R-11 or greater. 
e. If there are dual elements on the water heater, they must be 
electrically interlocked to prevent both from being energized at 
the same time. 
11. The developer, owner, or builder must schedule, must schedule an inspection 
with a BLW employee, once the water heater has been installed. 
12. At the inspection, the developer, owner, or builder must provide the BLW 
employee with the manufacturer’s specifications of the unit (make and model 
number of the water heater) 
 
The incentive for each electric water  heater will be $250 per unit. The incentive will be 
paid only once per dwelling and only after all requirements of this program have been 
satisfied.  The BLW employee will only submit a check request after a completed final 
inspection. 
 
 
 

--- SOURCE: https://www.mariettaga.gov/FormCenter/Power-Water-Marketing-27/Toilet-Rebate-Program-revised-effective--115 ---
Rebates are limited to single-family, residential customers receiving water service from Marietta Power and Water (MP&W). Rebates are only offered for homes built prior to 1994 with toilets using 3.5 gallons per flush (GPF) or greater. Rebates shall be a one-time credit applied to the customer's Marietta Power and Water bill as $75 for the purchase of WaterSense ultra high efficiency toilet(s) rated at 1.1 GPF or less. On or after July 1, 2021, no other toilets qualify for the rebate program. NOTE: Dual-flush toilets rated at 1.1/1.6 GPF do not qualify. Toilets using 1.28 GPF are no longer eligible.
House must be built before 1994 to qualify
RECENT PROGRAM CHANGE: Toilets purchased on or after July 1, 2021, must be WaterSense labeled ultra high-efficiency toilets (Water Sense UHET) using 1.1 GPF or less to be eligible for rebate(s) of $75. No other toilet(s) will be considered for rebate(s) on or after July 1, 2021.
NOTE: Dual-flush toilets rated at 1.1/1.6 GPF do not qualify. Toilets using 1.28 GPF are no longer eligible.
Upload receipt(s) of purchase for new toilet(s). Receipt(s) may show purchase of more that one toilet.
By my signature below and submittal hereof, customer acknowledges that the rebate is a one-time rebate to be received only if the customer has purchased eligible toilets after July 1, 2019 and is in good financial standing with the Marietta Power and Water. Customer acknowledges their home was built prior to 1994 or earlier with toilets using 3.5 GPF or greater. Customer also acknowledges that the credit is only available for WaterSense labeled ultra high efficiency toilets ($75 for 1.1 GPF or less) with a maximum of three (3) toilets per property (including previous owners). Customer acknowledges that dual-flush 1.1/1.6 GPF do not qualify. Customer also acknowledges that 1.8 GPF are no longer eligible. Customer further acknowledges that the rebate program is subject to available funds and may be cancelled at any time without notice. Please allow eight (8) weeks for processing. I have read and understand the toilet program policy as stated above. I understand to receive this rebate, I must install a qualifying toilet and dispose of my current toilet so that it may not be reused. I also understand a site visit may be conducted to verify toilet replacement. The original receipt for the new toilet purchased must be attached with this application for approval. I certify by my electronic signature below that I will comply with all of the requirements of the rebate program, that this application is true and correct in all respects, and that any failure on my part to provide true and correct information may subject me to penalties.
This field is not part of the form submission.
* indicates a required field

--- SOURCE: https://www.mariettaga.gov/FormCenter/Power-Water-Marketing-27/Energy-Efficiency-Rebate-Program-Applica-125 ---
Rebates are limited to single-family, residential customers receiving permanent electric service from Marietta Power and Water (MP&W). Rebates shall be a credit applied to the customer's MP&W bill.
Marietta P&W account number omitting the leading zeros.
Name on Marietta P&W account
(999) 999-9999
MP&W service address
Please select all applicable appliances or equipment.
*Refrigerator must be >=7.75 cubic feet. Old refrigerator must be removed.
Receipt(s) may show purchase of more than one rebate item.
I hereby certify that the appliance/equipment/improvements have been installed at the address above and I will allow a representative from MP&W to physically inspect my residence if requested. I certify by my signature below that I will comply with all the requirements of the rebate program, and further acknowledge that providing any false information may subject me to criminal penalties under O.C.G.A section 16-10-20 up to and including a fine of $1,000 and imprisonment for five years.
This field is not part of the form submission.
* indicates a required field
