--- SOURCE: http://www.rfmu.org/928/RFMU-Efficiency-Programs---Residential ---
- Home
- Departments
- Utilities
- Committed to River Falls
- Efficiency Programs
- Efficiency Programs - Residential
- RFMU Efficiency Programs - Residential
RFMU Efficiency Programs for Residential Customers
Residential and Multifamily Incentive for Energy Efficiency
RFMU offers $1000 for qualified energy efficiency equipment installed in your home. Eligible projects may include air source heat pump and air source water heaters. Furnaces are not eligible in this program. For more information and an application, click here Air Source Heat Pump & Air Source Water Heater Air Source Heat Pump & Air Source Water Heater Resi Air Source Heat Pump & Air Source Water Heater Residential Air Source Heat Pump & Air Source Water Heater Residential Incentive for Energy Effic Air Source Heat Pump & Air Source Water Heater Residential Incentive for Energy Efficenciy Air Source Heat Pump & Air Source Water Heater Residential Incentive for Energy Efficiency Residential and Mul Incentive for Energy Efficiency Residential and Multifami Incentive for Energy Efficiency.
Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential, Multifamily & Commercial
Electric vehicles are becoming more popular for residents, customers, and businesses. They’re cheaper to maintain and operate and have become an expectation of our customers. 2024 is a great time to install an electric vehicle charging station. RFMU offers generous rebates because we find it important to support electric vehicles as an eco-friendly and budget conscious mode of transportation. For more information and an application, click here Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential & Commercial Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential, & Commercial Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential, Mulit& Commercial Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential, Mult Commercial Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential, Multifamily Commercial Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential, Multifamily Commercial Electric Vehicle Charging Program - Residential, Multifamily & Commercial.
Electrification of Landscape Equipment
Switch to powering your landscape equipment to electric is cleaner, quieter, and can be powered with renewable energy. The incentive is 20 percent of the product cost if you’re participating in one of RFMU's renewable energy program or 10 percent if you choose not to participate in clean energy. To learn more, visit this page.
Home Energy Assessment Incentive
Home Energy Assessment Incentive can tell you a lot about your home and where you're inefficient and losing heat. The assessment costs $50 but that price is reduced to $25 if you’re participating in one of our renewable energy program. Coupled with the Focus on Energy’s - Home Performance with ENERGY STAR Program you can receive a maximum of $2,400 or 70% of the project cost. Home Energy Assessment Incentive Program Brochure and Application
Smart Thermostats
A smart thermostat is a Wi-Fi enabled device that “learns” your habits to help you manage your home heating and cooling costs. It adjusts your HVAC equipment based on your home’s unique energy profile and the weather outside. You can save energy and money (around $120 annually) without sacrificing comfort. You can control it with your smart phone, and it will notify you when your HVAC system is operating at top condition so you can stay ahead of any maintenance needs. RFMU customers can receive up to $50 for the purchase and installation of a smart thermostat. Smart Thermostat Incentive Application
Tree Power Program
Planting a tree on your property, which naturally filters the air, can also produce shade for home which reduces your energy bill. RFMU is offering additional savings by providing a rebate of $25-$50 for each tree that you plant. Simply plant a tree and take a picture. For information on how to apply, visit the application link
Central Air Conditioner
Your central air conditioner may lose up to five percent of its original efficiency every year. That can increase your utility bills, shorten the life of your equipment, and reduce the comfort level in your home. A simple tune-up and inspection of your central air conditioner can keep it running efficiently and save you money. We are offering a $50 chamber check incentive to customers who have their central A/C units serviced. For information on how to apply, visit the /DocumentCenter/View/895 Central Air Tune-Up Incentive Program Brochure and Application

--- SOURCE: https://www.rfmu.org/922/Efficiency-Programs ---
River Falls Municipal Utilities (RFMU) has partnered with Focus on Energy to offer a variety of energy efficiency services, rebates, and custom incentives for projects within the City of River Falls.
It may seem odd that we want to help you reduce your energy use, given that we sell electricity. But it's true. Because River Falls Municipal Utilities (RFMU) is owned by you, our customers, we have only your best interests at heart. When you use energy more efficiently, it's good for your business and good for our community.
Efficiency Programs - Residential
Efficiency Programs - Business
Efficiency Programs - Income Eligible

--- SOURCE: https://www.rfmu.org/681/Efficiency-Programs---Residential ---
It's a fact that there are approximately 6,000 residential customers in River Falls Municipal Utilities service area. We have developed programs and services specifically with you, the residential customer, in mind. Whether you own or rent, we have something that will help you save energy, as well as money.
River Falls Municipal Utility Programs
Focus on Energy Programs
For additional information or questions on any the efficiency programs, contact WPPI Energy Services Manager Jenna Willi at jwilli@wppienergy.org.

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.rfmu.org/DocumentCenter/View/5267/RiverFalls-HeatSourcePump-Flyer_Fnomarks ---
How to Apply:
Application through Focus on Energy
• Complete appropriate Focus on Energy’s Incentive 
Application (www.focusonenergy.com).
• Make efficiency improvements.
• Submit application to Focus on Energy .
Bonus of up to $1,000 from River Falls Municipal Utilities
• Ensure you are a participating customer of an RFMU 
renewable program: purchasing Green Blocks, share in the 
Community Solar Garden, and/or your own renewable energy
•
Submit RFMU bonus application (reverse side) along with a 
copy of sales receipt and a copy of completed Focus on 
Energy application via email to jwilli@wppienergy.org or mail 
to:
River Falls Municipal Utilities 
222 Lewis Street 
River Falls, WI 54022 
Allow 4-6 weeks for processing
Program Eligibility
This program is available to all River Falls Municipal 
Utilities (RFMU) residential customers.
• Projects must receive an incentive from Focus on Energy 
to be eligible for the bonus from River Falls Municipal 
Utilities. 
• The combined value of the RFMU bonus and Focus on 
Energy incentive cannot exceed 75% of the installed 
project cost. Internal labor costs are not to be included in 
the project cost.
• R
FMU reserves the right to inspect the project before and 
after project completion.
• Proof of payment for project completion must be 
provided.
• Incentive not combinable with other RFMU incentives.
• Eligible projects include, but are not limited to, air source 
heat pumps, air source water heaters, and other 
electrification upgrades. 
RESIDENTIAL/
MULTIFAMILY INCENTIVE 
FOR
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Bonus Energy Efficiency 
Program - earn up to $1,000
Earn matching incentives for electrical savings tied to those given by 
Focus on Energy. Projects include but are not limited to heat pumps, heat 
pump water heaters, and more.
Up to $1,000 as a bonus match  
to Focus on Energy’s programs
At River Falls Municipal Utilities, we join forces with other local not-for-
profit utilities through WPPI Energy to share resources and lower costs.
rfmu.org      (715) 425-0906
Through your public power utility, these programs are proudly supported by POWERful 
Choices! POWERful Choices! is a community-wide effort to instill a strong conserva-
tion ethic while demonstrating the effectiveness of energy efficiency, conservation and 
renewable resource development.
Date Application Received  Date of Project Completion
A
uthorized Incentive Date of Pay Authorization
Applicant’s Name Date Applicant’s Signature
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all statements made in this application are true and correct. I understand this program may be modified or 
discontinued at any time without notice, it has limited funding and applications will be accepted on a first-come, first-served basis, until allocated funds are 
spent. I agree to the terms and conditions set forth in this application for this program. I UNDERSTAND THAT MY ELECTRIC UTILITY MAKES NO 
WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO ANY EQUIPMENT PURCHASED AND/OR INSTALLED AS A RESULT OF THE PROGRAM, 
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTY OR MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
I certify that this offer provides up to $1000 per year of matching incentives received by Focus on Energy for applicable products, and that this offer is not 
combinable with other RFMU incentives.
Customer Name RFMU Account Number
Mailing Address City / State Zip Code
CUSTOMER LEGAL INFORMATION (as shown on your income tax return)
CUSTOMER SIGNATURE (read and sign)
UTILITY USE ONLY
RESIDENTIAL REBATE FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Bonus Program
HOW TO APPLY:  Following project completion, attach a copy of the sales receipt and completed Focus on Energy Incentive 
Application and return to RFMU with this completed form. Qualifying projects must be completed by December 31, 2025. 
Applications must be received by January 31, 2026.
Daytime Phone Number Estimated Project Cost  Estimated Incentive
       Post Inspection:    ❍ Yes   ❍ No
Questions? Need more information? Call us at 715-425-0906

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.rfmu.org/DocumentCenter/View/995 ---
River Falls Municipal Utilities 222 Lewis St, River Falls, WI 54022
1
2
3
Home Energy Assessment 
River Falls Municipal Utilities Incentive Program 
Save money. Increase comfort. Stay green.
Simple steps to home 
energy efficiency:
For more energy saving 
options, visit 
www.focusonenergy.com
The Home Energy Assessment offers a comprehensive, whole house approach to improving energy 
efficiency, performance, and comfort.
River Falls Municipal Utilities will cover all but $50 ($25 if participating in 
a renewable energy program) 
of the 
assessment cost. 
Maximum incentive of $2,400 or 70% of the completed project.
QUESTIONS?  NEED MORE INFORMATION?
Contact RFMU at jwilli@wppienergy.org 
to schedule a Home Energy Assessment.
Have assessment completed and 
complete suggested improvements.
Submit sales receipt and application and 
get your rebate!
An energy audit will give you a 
better understanding of your 
home's energy use, comfort, and 
efficiency.
Did you know
Purchasing Green Blocks makes you eligible for greater 
rebates on River Falls efficiency programs. To learn 
more about Green Blocks, check out: 
River Falls Renewable Energy Block Program
Home Energy Assessment
HOW TO APPLY: Following project completion, attach a copy of the sales receipt and completed Focus on Energy's 
Incentive Application and return to River Falls Municipal Utilities. Qualifying projects must be completed by 
Dec. 31, 2025. Applications must be received by Jan. 31, 2026. 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION (please print clearly)
Daytime phone number
Email Address
Consultant company
Contact person
HOME PERFORMANCE WITH ENERGY ASSESSMENT INFORMATION
(read and sign)
FOR UTILITY USE ONLY
Date application received Authorization signature
Customer name (first, last)
Address
Utility account number
Daytime phone number
Email addressCity / state / zip code
Date
X
Applicant's name Date Applicant's signature
Focus on Energy 
REBATE
RFMU 
INCENTIVE 
Attic, Foundation* &/or Wall
Insulation
Duct Sealing and Insulation*
TOTAL RFMU SUPPLEMENTAL REBATE AMOUNT
AIR SEALING & 
INSULATION (Single family 
ENERGY S3 units)TAR Qualified Air 
Sealing*
AIR SEALING & INSULATION Focus on Energy 
REBATE
RFMU
INCENTIVE 
Air Sealing & Attic Insulation, 
Existing <R-11
Exterior Wall Inuslation, 
Existing <R5
TOTAL RFMU SUPPLEMENTAL REBATE AMOUNT
(Multi-family 4+ units)
 CERTIFICATION AND AGREEMENT
River Falls Municipal Utilities (RFMU) makes no warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to any equipment purchased and/or installed – including, but not limited to, any 
warranty of merchant-ability or fitness for purpose. In no event shall RFMU be liable for any incidental or consequential damages. RFMU does not guarantee that the home energy 
assessment or recommended improvements will result in energy cost savings. This program has a limited budget; applications will be accepted on a first-come, first-served basis 
until allocated funds are spent. This program may be modified or discontinued at any time without notice. This rebate is available only to customers of RFMU. Homes must receive 
natural gas from St. Croix Gas or be heated with more than 50 percent electric heat from RFMU. Projects must qualify for Focus on Energy's Home Performance with ENERGY 
STAR incentives in order to receive incentives offered by RFMU. I certify that all statements made in this application are correct to the best of my knowledge. I agree to the terms 
and conditions of this offer as set forth on this application. I agree that RFMU reserves the right to verify sales receipts and installation before issuing incentives. All energy 
improvement projects must be completed and receipts and applications must be received within 90 days of improvement completion and no later than Dec. 31, 2025.
Energy Star Bath Fan
(RFMU incentive only)
DIY Attic Insulation & Air 
Sealing ($200 max)
*must be completed along with Trade Ally 
contractor installed attic insulation improvements
Air Sealing & Attic Insulation, 
Existing R-12 to R-19
Air Sealing & Attic Insulation, 
Existing R-20 to R-38
*must be completed along with Trade Ally 
contractor installed attic insulation improvements
