--- SOURCE: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/pds/windturb.html ---
Wind Turbine Development Information
Welcome to the County of San Diego, Wind Turbine informational page. This is what to expect when you are submitting:
ZONING REQUIREMENTS
Determine what size and type of wind turbine you are proposing (your scope of work) by reviewing the definitions of wind turbines to find out the difference between a small, medium and large wind turbine system:
- SMALL: See Section 6951 of the Zoning Ordinance (search the document for "6951");
- LARGE: See Section 6952 of the Zoning Ordinance (search the document for "6952").
- COMMERCIAL: Prior to submittal to the Building Division please contact the Zoning Counter at (858) 565-5981 for discretionary permit information and the Chief Electrical Inspector for electrical requirements (858) 565-5920.
MINIMUM PLAN REQUIREMENTS
Provide two complete sets of plans and supporting documents to include (but not limited to):
- Cover sheet on the plans including:
- Sheet index
- Site address
- Owner and/or contractor’s name
- Scope of work description identifying the type of turbine, number of turbines, manufacturer and model/number, and output rating in watts of each turbine.
- A plot
plan is required (see Minimum Plot Plan Information, form PDS 090).
The plot plan must show the location of the turbine(s) and all
turbine-related electrical equipment. Plot plan is to include
dimensions and shall comply with zoning ordinance requirements.
- The following Noise Abatement Verification needs to be made part of the plot plan and signed:
I, the property owner, understand that the wind turbine system(s) proposed at _____________________ must comply with the requirements of Title 3, Division 6, Chapter 4 (Noise Abatement And Control) of the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances. If the wind turbine system(s) permitted and installed on my property exceed the noise limit requirements I understand that the County of San Diego will take enforcement action which may require the property owner to alter or remove the wind turbine system(s).
Signed,
__________________________________
________________
__________________________________ |
- Provide complete structural plans and specifications for plan
review to include: (All engineering calculations, structural plans
and soils reports must be prepared, stamped and wet-signed by a
California-licensed Civil Engineer or Architect.)
- Turbine/tower assembly and any attached components
- Turbine/tower connection to foundation or other supporting construction
- Foundation plan (if not attached to structure)
- Calculations demonstrating compliance of turbine/tower assembly, foundation, and all connections with 2010 California Building Code for all applicable load combinations, including gravity, wind and seismic loads
- Soils reports if 2010 CBC minimum soil bearing values not assumed in foundation design
- Special Inspection summary for any post-installed concrete anchors, high-strength concrete, high-strength bolts, masonry, or field welding
- Dimensioned elevation(s)indicating height of wind turbine/tower and any attached components
Note: If the proposed turbine is roof-mounted or on any part of a structure, then the suitability of that structure to support the turbine and/or its equipment must be determined. A structural roof plan will be required if on a roof. Structures built without permits will have to go through the permitting process before any additional permits will be issued.
- Provide a COMPLETE electrical single-line diagram showing turbines, junction boxes, fuses, combiner boxes, disconnects, inverters, electric panels, meters, batteries, etc (see from PDS 663). Include on the diagram:
|
|
- All electrical equipment including the turbine is subject to evaluation and testing by a nationally recognized third-party testing agency such as UL, ETL, CSA, MET, TUV, or others. The certification shall include listing and labeling to the most appropriate recognized standards for the specific piece of equipment. This testing can be performed by the manufacturer or can be performed by a third-party field evaluation.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
- If the system is on a septic system, Department of Environmental Health (DEH) approval will be required prior to permit issuance. Contact the DEH at (858) 565-5173 for further information.
- If the proposed system is to be mounted on a manufactured home, a separate permit from the State of California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) will be required prior to permit issuance. Contact HCD at (951) 782-4420 for further information.
RELATED LINKS
Acknowledgement: This material is based upon work supported by
the Department of Energy under Award Number DE-EE0000902.
Disclaimer: This report was prepared as an account of work
sponsored by an agency of the United States Government. Neither
the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of
their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or
assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy,
completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would
not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any
specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name,
trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily
constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring
by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views
and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state
or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/ais.html ---
Select a language using the Google™ Translate feature above to change the text on this site into other languages. *We cannot guarantee the accuracy of any information translated through Google™ Translate. This translation feature is offered as an additional resource for information.
Seleccione un idioma usando la función Google ™ Translate de arriba
para traducir este sitio.
使用上面的Google™翻译功能选择一种语言来翻译此网站.
Chọn ngôn ngữ bằng tính
năng Dịch Google ™ ở trên để dịch trang web này.
Pumili ng isang wika gamit ang tampok na Google ™ Translate sa itaas
upang i-translate ang site na ito.

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/bhs.html ---
Behavioral Health Services
Looking for mental health or substance use services for you or a loved one?
Not sure where to start?
Call or text 9-8-8 or dial 1-888-724-7240 to speak to someone who can help find the right services for you or someone you care about. Both numbers are operated 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with support available in over 200 languages. For more information visit Get Help Now or All Services. If you are experiencing an emergency, please call 9-1-1.

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/cs/child_welfare_services.html ---
Child and Family Well-Being
For more information about Child and Family Well-Being, call the KidsLine at 877-792-KIDS (5437).
Report suspected child abuse or neglect at 858-560-2191 24 hours a day, seven days a week, or from within the State of California, call toll-free 1(800) 344-6000.
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB is committed to excellence in the delivery of culturally competent, family-centered and child-focused protective services. CFWB investigates reports of suspected child abuse and neglect and intervenes with families who do not meet the minimum community standards of health and safety as required by law. Investigations are conducted in a thorough and professional manner. Family interventions are completed in the least intrusive manner necessary for the protection of the child. In addition to these services, CFWB administers the following: Polinsky Children’s Center, a 24-hour facility for the temporary emergency shelter of children; San Pasqual Academy, a first-in-the-nation residential education campus for adolescent foster youth; foster care eligibility and licensing; group home placement services for foster youth with emotional and behavioral issues; services to emancipating foster youth; adoptive home assessments and placements; and critical support services to regional operations.
Child and Family Well-Being
The County of San Diego has developed the Child and Family
Well-Being (CFWB) Department to fundamentally shift how
children, youth, families, and communities are supported. We want to
prevent children and youth from entering the child welfare system and
create a partnership with families, leveraging their experience, to
hold them as the experts in keeping their children safe.
Services offered by Child and Family Well-Being:
Adoptions
County of San Diego Adoptions serves all members of the adoption triad: adoptees, birth families, and adoptive parents. Both voluntary relinquishments, and adoptions of children from the foster care system, are handled by the agency. Free, no-obligation orientations are available for those interested in learning more about available services, including, ongoing, professional education and training classes about adoption issues.
Career/Volunteer Opportunities
Are you inspired to see children and families thrive and want to work with culturally mindful, dedicated professionals? This may be the place for you! CFWB is committed to strengthening families by providing trauma-informed prevention and protection services to vulnerable children, their families, and communities across the county to reduce child abuse and neglect.
Child Abuse Hotline
Are you worried that a child is being abused or neglected? Call 858-560-2191 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Within the state of California, call toll free 1(800) 344-6000.
Child and Family Strengthening Advisory Board
The Board of Supervisors has taken a strong leadership role in supporting efforts to prevent and respond to child abuse and neglect. The efforts focus on strengthening families by identifying and addressing the needs of children and youth who are in the public charge as well as those whose safety and welfare may be at risk.
Child Welfare Improvements and the COAS
The County of San Diego Child Welfare Improvements was developed to respond to the California Outcomes and Accountability System (COAS). This was formerly known as the California-Child and Family Service Review (C-CFSR).
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB) Policy Manual
Policies for Child Welfare practice.
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB) Resources for Families
Resources available for Families
Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (Human Trafficking)
Human trafficking is the second largest underground economy in San Diego, at an estimated $810 million annually. When minors under age 18 are trafficked, this is child abuse. We usually identify girls as victims of trafficking, but boys and youth of all genders are regularly targeted. If you or someone you know needs help, please call our Child Abuse Hotline at (800) 344-6000. Caring, trained people are available 24 hours a day.
Data
Available data reports include the Annual Statistics Report and the CFWB Dashboard.
Foster Care Services Committee
To meet monthly with representatives from community-based organizations and County programs that directly impact foster families.
Family Urgent Response System (FURS)
FURS includes a 24/7 Statewide Hotline and a 24/7 County-based Mobile Response and Stabilization Team. FURS will provide current and former foster youth (up to age 21) and their caregivers with immediate, trauma-informed support by caring and trained professionals when they need it.
Independent Living Skills
Independent Living Skills is a program designed to assist 16 to 18 year olds who are in out-of-home placement and are likely to remain there until they can live on their own.
Ombudsman
The County of San Diego Child and Family Well-Being takes your concerns seriously and handles them with the utmost diligence. Depending on the nature of your concern, we have three options to handle the issue most effectively:
- CFWB Office of the Ombudsman
- Resource Parent Ombudsman
- HHSA Business Assurance and Compliance
If you are a foster youth and want to elevate your concerns while in foster care, please contact the California Foster Care Ombudsperson at (877) 846-1602, or fosteryouthhelp.ca.gov.
Placement and Support Services: Open your heart to a child/youth in foster care
Children in your neighborhood need your help now. At any given time, there are about 1,500 children in out of home care. To learn more about becoming a resource family, click here.
COVID-19 FAQs for FFAs and STRTPs 4/9/20
COVID-19 FAQs for FFAs and STRTPs 4/20/20
Foster Parent Request for MyChart Proxy Access
Foster Youth Rights Handbook (Spanish)
Foster Youth Bill of Rights Coloring Book
Polinsky Children's Center
The A.B. and Jessie Polinsky Children's Center is a 24-hour facility for the temporary emergency shelter of children who must be separated from their families for their own safety, or when parents can not provide care.
Polinsky Children's Center (PCC) Advisory Board
The PCC Advisory Board shall consist of five members, all of whom shall be residents of the County of San Diego.
Relative Notification
Child and Family Well-Being is committed to the importance of relatives and the role they play in a family’s life. Relatives provide important family and lifelong connections for children involved with Child and Family Well-Being. Relatives can provide critical support when the mother and father cannot.
Respite Services
The County of San Diego Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB) values our collaborative partnership with Resource Families and recognizes both the importance of providing supportive services and the unique needs of Resource Families. We understand that the role of the caregiver can be challenging and that supportive services are vital to success.
Safe4Baby
Safe4Baby focuses on educating parents and caregivers about four primary areas: Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), Safe Sleeping, Shaken Baby Syndrome and the Safely Surrendered Baby Law.
San Pasqual Academy
San Pasqual Academy, a first-in-the-nation residential education campus designed specifically for foster youth, serves as a placement option for dependents of the Juvenile Court, 12-17 years old, and Non-Minor Dependents (NMDs) up to age 19 years old.
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB): Safety Enhanced
Together (Strengthening Children and Families) (Video)
Guide To Child and Family Well-Being and Juvenile Dependency Court (Printable Guide)
Guía de Bienestar del Niño y la Familia y Tribunal de Dependencia de Menores (guía imprimible)
Guide to CFWB and Juvenile Dependency Court: Part 1 (Video)
Guide to CFWB and Juvenile Dependency Court: Part 2 (Video)
Guide to CFWB and Juvenile Dependency Court: Part 3 (Video)
Una Guia del Sistema Bienestar al Menor Para Padres de Familia (vídeo) (Updated version coming soon)

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/mcsd.html ---
Medical Care Services
PUBLIC HEALTH CENTERS
The Public Health Centers offer a variety of services to the community.
Open Monday - Wednesday and Friday 8am to 5pm, Thursday 10am - 5pm. Clinic hours may be extended to meet community needs.
For an appointment, please call the most convenient public health center or make an on-line appointment. An appointment is not required to receive services. For instructions on how to make an appointment, click here.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE SURVEY
The County of San Diego, Medical Care Services strives to provide every one of our customers with a positive experience and would like to hear your thoughts. Your input will help us provide exceptional services.
