--- SOURCE: http://www.anaheim.net/5353/Business-Energy-Rebates ---
Skip to Main Content
Search
MY ACCOUNT
Ways to Save
Electric Services
Water Services
Resources
Home
Departments
Public Utilities
Ways to Save
Commercial
Business Energy Rebates
Business Energy Rebates
Air Conditioner Incentive
Air Purifier Rebate
Customized Energy Incentives
EV Charger Rebate
Energy & Water Incentives for Multi-family Housing
Heat Pump Incentives Program
Lighting Incentives Program
Motor Incentive Program
TreePower Program
Uninterruptible Power Supply Rebate
Government Websites by
CivicPlus®
Loading
Loading
Arrow Left
Arrow Right
[]
Slideshow Left Arrow
Slideshow Right Arrow

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/2543/Air-Conditioner-Incentive ---
Replacing your old and inefficient air conditioner units can save more money than you think.
Incentives are available for installing new high-efficiency air conditioning (AC) units. If your current system is nearing or has reached its typical useful life of about 15 years, now is an ideal time to consider a replacement.
Upgrading to a modern, energy-efficient AC unit can reduce electricity usage by 40–60% compared to older systems—delivering long-term energy savings and improved comfort.

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/5621/Air-Purifier-Rebate ---
Anaheim Public Utilities offers business customers rebates for room air cleaners, also known as air purifier. Air purifiers are portable appliances that remove fine particles, such as pollen, dust, and unpleasant odors from the air. Using ENERGY STAR® portable air purifiers is a great way to improve indoor air quality in a single room or area while using energy efficiently.
ENERGY STAR® certified air purifier: $75 per unit (limit 4)

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/1533/Customized-Energy-Incentives ---
- Home
- Departments
- Public Utilities
- Ways to Save
- Commercial
- Business Energy Rebates
- Customized Energy Incentives
Customized Energy Incentives
Upgrade to high-efficiency equipment to save energy and earn valuable incentives.
The Anaheim Business Energy Efficiency Solutions (ABEES) Program offers Customized Energy Incentives for customers interested in upgrading to high-efficiency equipment that falls outside the standard ABEES offerings.
Inefficient equipment can increase operating costs and reduce overall profitability. Upgrading to energy-efficient technologies can help lower energy expenses, improve performance, and strengthen your bottom line.
Our Customized Energy Incentives are designed to help offset the cost of these upgrades. Incentive amounts are determined through performance-based calculations using either kilowatt (kW) demand reduction or annual kilowatt-hour (kWh) energy savings.
Performance-Based Incentives:
| Measure Description | On-peak kW reduction, Rate ($/kW) (A) | Annual kWh savings, Rate ($/kWh) (B) | Incentive | Maximum Incentive |
|---|---|---|---|---|
Chillers | $400/kW | $0.15/kWh | A or B, whichever is greater | limited Incentive amount, up to $75,000, per customer per year |
If you are ready to implement a customized project, please download the following information and contact us about your project. All projects are subject to funding availability.
Program Steps
- Download the Program Guidelines and Customized Incentive Table documents.
- Download the Customized Incentive Application (Rename your workbook using your account address and name.)
- Please download and complete all required forms (including the tax forms - W-9)
- Question about program details, simply fill out our online form. A representative will contact you within 2-3 business days.
Contact Us
-
Commercial Rebates & Incentives
714-765-4250 or Email
ACH/Hearing Impaired
TDD: 714-765-5125Office:
Mon - Fri: 8 am - 5 pm
Anaheim West Tower
201 S. Anaheim Blvd.
Anaheim, CA 92805

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/3312/ ---
- Home
- Departments
- Public Utilities
- Electric Services
- Electric Vehicles
- Commercial EV Programs
- Public EV Charger Rebate
Public Access EV Charger Rebates
Receive Up to $3,500 Per Charger for Public Access Locations
Receive Up to $7,500 Per Charger for Schools, Affordable Housing, and Publicly Accessible DC Fast Plug-in locations
Rebates are subject to fund availability.
Anaheim Public Utilities is oﬀering Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station rebates to commercial, industrial, and municipal customers who install Level 2 (240-Volt) or higher plug-in electric vehicle (EV) chargers at locations accessible to patrons, multi-family dwelling residents, commuters, and visitors.
Under this program, customers will be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses up to $3,500 per charging station for public access locations, or up to $7,500 for school, aﬀordable housing, or publicly accessible DC fast plug-in locations (maximum of 10 charging stations).
Eligible expenses include:
- Cost of the charger
- Cost of installation
Program participants who choose to install an associated sub-meter may receive up to $3,500. In addition, Anaheim Public Utilities will reimburse city plan check fees up to $1,500 for such participants.
Program Steps:
1. Review the Public Access EV Charging Station Rebate Reservation Form and Program Agreement Terms and Conditions (pages 3-4).
2. Complete the Reservation Form and email it to the program manager at [email protected].
Customers awarded a rebate will be emailed an approval letter and provided with a Rebate Reservation Number.
3. Contact Electrical Engineering at 714-765-5156 to inquire about EV charger installation requirements, after receiving the approval letter.
4. Obtain a permit for installation of your new charger(s) at:
200 South Anaheim Boulevard,
First Floor, Suite 145, Counter 1
Anaheim, CA 92805
If you have questions about the permitting process, please call Building Services at 714-765-5153.
5. Install your new EV charging station in accordance with the Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program Agreement within one (1) year of receiving your Rebate Reservation Number.
6. Complete the Agreement Form and submit supporting documents. Please carefully review the Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program Agreement before completing and submitting the form with all supporting documents.
Supporting documents include:
- EV Rebate Reservation Number
- All charging station purchase and installation receipts
- Copy of Building Department Permit Card showing final sign-off
- W-9 Form filled out by the customer receiving the rebate
- Current utility bill for the same address as the new sub-meter (if applicable)
Submit documents via email ([email protected]) or mail:
Public Access EV Charging Station Rebate Program
201 South Anaheim Boulevard, Suite 801
Anaheim, CA 92805
7. To assign the rebate to a third party, complete the Public Access EV Charger Rebate Assignment Form.
Contact Us
-
Commercial Rebates & Incentives
714-765-4250 or Email
ACH/Hearing Impaired
TDD: 714-765-5125Office:
Mon - Fri: 8 am - 5 pm
Anaheim West Tower
201 S. Anaheim Blvd.
Anaheim, CA 92805
