--- SOURCE: http://www.austintexas.gov/department/austin-climate-protection-program ---
The Climate Program leads City efforts to address the challenges of climate change for Austin.
We're going Net-zero by 2040!
How are we going to get there?
By working towards two goals:
- Implementing the Austin Climate Equity Plan and its goal of net-zero community-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 2040.
- Creating strategies to increase resilience to climate-related threats.
It’s going to take more than City action to protect and preserve what’s best about Austin. Everyone has to do their part to cut carbon.
Be part of the bigger picture!
Watch the video to learn more about the goals of the Climate Equity Plan and ways that you can get involved.
Looking for inspiration?
Meet the City of Austin's Net-Zero Heroes!
Net-Zero Heroes are individuals around Austin who are doing simple things that collectively make a big difference. Every Net-Zero Hero is helping to advance our city's climate goals in their own way. Meet the heroes through our Net-Zero Hero archive.
Do you know a sustainability superstar who should be recognized as a Net-Zero Hero?
Send your nomination to climate@austintexas.gov.
Learn more
Explore additional resources
- Tips for reducing your carbon footprint
-
1. Ditch the plastic water bottles.
Invest in a reusable water bottle. You’ll save money and the environment.
2. Use cold water for laundry.
And do your laundry in full loads. This will decrease the amount of water and energy used.
3. Drive efficiently.
Use the accelerator lightly, coast to red lights, stay near the speed limit, and go inside instead of idling in parking lots or drive-thrus.
4. Incorporate walking or biking into your daily routine.
Try to incorporate active travel at least once or twice daily. Walking one mile takes only about 20 minutes!
5. Adjust your thermostat.
Set to 78 degrees in the summer and 67 degrees in the winter. Be sure to turn off the heat and AC when you’re not at home.
6. Recycle and reuse.
Keep stuff out of the landfill and reduce emissions that come from methane.
7. Keep tires properly inflated.
When tire pressure is low, cars have to work harder and burn more gas.
8. Eat more locally-grown food.
Taste the difference, feel better and support the Austin economy!
8. Turn off lights and unplug devices.
Every little action adds up to energy savings.
10. Use sustainable transportation.
Aim for at least once a week! Enjoy time to yourself instead of testing your patience in traffic.
1. Commit to riding the bus to work at least one day a week.
Downloading the Capital Metro mobile app makes it easy. With the CapMetro App, your smartphone becomes your ticket. Use the app for schedules, maps, and real-time arrival information.
2. Replace your light bulbs with LEDs.
LEDs use up to 90% less energy and last 10 to 25 times longer than incandescent bulbs (and five times longer than compact fluorescent bulbs). Save money on your energy bill and receive an Austin Energy rebate for your LED purchases – that’s a win-win!
3. Start composting at home.
Let nature recycle your coffee grounds, food scraps, and yard waste into fertilizer for your garden, lawn, or flower beds. Austin Resource Recovery offers classes to get you started.
4. Sign up for the GreenChoice program.
Be a wind fan. Choosing Austin Energy’s GreenChoice for your electricity adds clean energy to the grid every day with 100% renewable Texas wind.
5. Choose a greener car.
If it’s time to trade in that clunker, look for a car that's electric or hybrid, uses alternative fuel, or is highly fuel-efficient. AAA Texas offers a free guide to help you choose the vehicle that will work best for you and reduce your carbon footprint.
6. Weatherize your home.
Work with a qualified Energy Professional to inspect and test attic insulation, ductwork, heating and cooling equipment, weather stripping, plumbing penetrations, and windows. Identifying and fixing any problems will lower your monthly energy expenses, and rebates and loans can help with making the improvements.
7. Organize a neighborhood sharing / swapping pool.
Your trash might be someone else’s treasure. Give the things you no longer use a new home instead of sending them to the landfill.
8. Use less water.
Energy is needed to treat and process the water we use every day. Saving water uses less energy, which in turn reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Track your water usage and be WaterWise – Austin Water offers rebates to help.
9. Take the slow road.
Why drive to Dallas, Houston, or San Antonio when you can take the bus or train instead? Free wifi, dining and lounge options, and seats with ample legroom are available on Amtrak, Megabus, or Greyhound for what you’d pay for gas to drive – and with none of the traffic headaches.
10. Upcycle + Reuse
Get creative. Make something new from something old that is functional or beautiful or BOTH! Need inspiration or some quick how-to’s? Check out the Upcycle That website for tips and tricks to give used items new life, and then visit Austin Creative Reuse to stock up on crafting supplies.
1. Become an EnergyStar superstar.
Time to upgrade that fridge or dishwasher? Looking for a new TV or DVD player? Choosing appliances or electronics that are Energy Star-rated will lower your energy bill and your carbon footprint.
2. Keep cool.
If your air conditioning system is more than ten years old, replace it with a more efficient one; newer models use up to 40% less energy. Austin Energy offers rebates for a variety of heating and cooling system options.
3. Harness the sun.
Installing rooftop solar panels to your home adds clean, renewable energy to the power grid – and you can get a credit on your electricity bill for the power that’s generated. Austin Energy offers solar incentives to help you get started.
4. Become a zero or one-car family.
The cost of owning a car can entail up to 1/3 of the average household budget. Think about all the trips you take and what alternative options are available. Between public transit, car share programs, and plain old biking and walking, you may not need that clunker after all.
5. Electrify your ride.
Driving an electric car creates zero emissions – and you’ll never have to fill that gas tank again! Austin Energy offers charging stations all over town that are powered by clean, renewable solar, as well as incentives and rebates for your electric car, bike, motorbike, scooter, or Segway purchase.
6. Offset those frequent flyer miles.
Neutralize the climate impacts associated with travel by purchasing carbon offsets. Paying an additional $5 to $25 will cover the emissions created from most trips, and the money will go toward carbon-capture or reduction projects that support green business, job creation, and biodiversity. Austin-Bergstrom International Airport has partnered with The Good Traveler for carbon offset purchases.
7. Ditch the grass.
Plants and trees native to Central Texas require less water (and, therefore, less energy) to maintain. In addition to reducing your carbon footprint, replacing turf grass with native plant beds could make you eligible for a WaterWise rebate. Forget about mowing and Grow Green!
8. Buy used most of the time.
For a fraction of the cost of buying new things, purchasing secondhand items requires no raw materials for production, no energy costs for manufacturing, and reduces the amount of waste sent to landfills.
9. Eat mostly plants.
1,850 gallons of water are required to produce one pound of meat, but only 39 gallons are needed for one pound of vegetables. The production of meat also results in 30 times more greenhouse gas emissions than vegetables. Go meatless whenever you can.
10. Get a programmable thermostat.
Heat and cool your home with an internet-connected thermostat and receive a rebate from Austin Energy. These nifty devices give you control over your home’s temperature from any location, save you money, and reduce the risk of power outages for everyone during peak demand periods.
Extra Credit!
Encourage family, friends, neighbors, and colleagues to take action with you. Together, we can create a better, brighter, and more beautiful city!
View the Austin Community Carbon Footprint Dashboard |

--- SOURCE: https://www.austintexas.gov/business/incentives-and-grants-0 ---
Incentives and Grants Learn more about incentives and grants we offer for new and relocating businesses in Austin. Incentives and Grants Business Incentives and Expansion Business Retention and Expansion Program Commercial Recycling Rebate Program Reducing Waste at Events Small Business Energy Rebates

--- SOURCE: https://www.austintexas.gov/business/incentives-and-grants ---
Incentives and Grants Learn more about incentives and grants we offer for new and relocating businesses in Austin. Incentives and Grants Business Incentives and Expansion Business Retention and Expansion Program Commercial Recycling Rebate Program Small Business Energy Rebates

--- SOURCE: https://www.austintexas.gov/department/austin-climate-action-and-resilience/programs ---
Programs
The City of Austin's Air Quality Program aims to promote healthy outdoor air for our community. We do this by teaming up with regional partners to address air quality concerns that affect us all. This effort is coordinated through the Capital Area Council of Governments’ Air Central Texas initiative.
Whether you’re an established business or just getting started, the Austin Green Business Leaders program can help you protect the environment, save money, and make Austin a more livable place.
Help make Austin a greener, cooler place to live where everyone has daily access to nature.
Join us on social @NatureCityATX, where we're cultivating connections!
Food connects us all. From the places we shop to the meals we share, we all play a role in creating a more just and sustainable food system. Growing, selling, eating, and recovering food locally creates jobs, strengthens the economy, improves public health, and supports our city’s climate goals.
Read on for how the City of Austin is working with partners to strengthen our food system — and ways that you can help!
Receive funding for your green school projects
The Bright Green Future Grants program is a competitive program that provides funding for school-based sustainability projects up to $3,000.
Our climate is changing, and we're already experiencing the impacts.
The Climate Program leads City efforts to address the challenges of climate change for Austin.
Are you working to address issues related to food, climate change, or resilience in your community? Discover how a Food and Climate Equity Grant can help you meet your project goals.
Austin’s urban forest is made up of trees, vegetation and other components that are invaluable to the wellbeing and identity of our community. Explore and learn more about this growing resource.

--- SOURCE: http://www.austintexas.gov/department/water-conservation-rebates ---
Residential Rebates Commercial Rebates
Online Residential Rebate Application
NEW - Applying for an Austin Water residential rebate is easier than ever before thanks to our new online application form!
Online Residential Rebate Application
Paper and PDF copies of individual rebate applications, including versions in Spanish, are available by request by sending us an email or 512-974-2199 option 4.
Community Outreach Grant Program
Austin Water's new Community Outreach Grant is a competitive program designed to support innovative, community-led initiatives promoting water conservation awareness and education in Austin. The program awards up to $3,000, and applications for 2026 will be accepted until December 31.
Community Outreach Grant Application
Water Conservation Help Desk
Walk-in hours are by appointment only. Appointments are available during normal business hours and subject to staff availability.
To schedule an appointment with the Help Desk, please contact us at watercon@austintexas.gov or 512-974-2199 option 4.
- Free water conservation tools (available for residential customers only) are mailed to the customer, free of charge. You can request these materials through the Austin Water Customer Portal.
- If you prefer to pick up your order at our Waller Creek Office (located downtown), please select the pick-up option on the request form. In-person pick up is available during regular business hours by appointment only and subject to staff availability.
Customers of Austin Water or a qualifying water provider (see list of providers below) can receive rebates and incentives by taking steps to conserve water.
- Residential Rebates
-
To request a paper or PDF copy of an individual rebate application, please contact watercon@austintexas.gov or 512-974-2199 option 4. / Para pedir una copia física o un PDF de una aplicación de reembolso, por favor contacte watercon@austintexas.gov o 512-974-2199 opción 4.
Landscape Rebates
Irrigation Rebates
Pool Rebates
- Free Water Conservation Tools
-
How to get your free tools:
Submit a request for your free water conservation tools through the Austin Water Customer Portal (available for residential customers only). Orders are mailed to the customer via USPS, free of charge. If you prefer to pick up your order at our Waller Creek Office (located downtown), please select the pick-up option on the request form. In-person pick up is available during regular business hours by appointment only and subject to staff availability.
Indoor Tools:
- Showerhead - save 2 gallons per minute or more with a water-efficient showerhead, available in either regular or soap-up valve models that only use 1.5 gallons of water per minute.
- Kitchen & Bathroom Faucet Aerator - mix air with water to reduce the amount of water used without reducing water pressure. Bathroom aerators use 0.5 gallons of water per minute and kitchen aerators use 1.5 gallons per minute.
Outdoor Tools:
- Soil Moisture Meter - measures the moisture of your soil to help you know when it’s time to add water; available in ladybug or frog design.
- Water Saver Hose Meter* - monitor and control water use with a digital meter attachment for garden hoses and hose-end sprinklers.
- Sunlight Calculator* - measure the amount of light each area of your yard receives, then use the included plant guide to select plants that best fit the light conditions.
* these items are only available through check-out at the Austin Public Library.
More Informational Material:
"Practical Plumbing Handbook - With Important Water Saving Tips" - booklet published by the Alliance for Water Efficiency with useful information on conserving water and fixing many common problems, such as leaky faucets, running toilets, and inefficient irrigation systems.
- More Tools for Residential Customers
-
- Laundry to Landscape Guide - Using clean but gently used water from your washing machine (called “graywater”) can help you save money, conserve water, and reduce the strain on Austin’s water treatment systems. This guide will walk you through how to set up a laundry-to-landscape graywater system at your home, safely and affordably.
- Irrigation System Check-Ups - Performing an irrigation system check-up can help residents set an efficient watering schedule and identify the need for system repairs and upgrades.
- Residential Graywater FAQ - Graywater is the wastewater from bathroom sinks, showers/bathtubs, and clothes washers/laundry tubs. This water usually goes to the public sewer with other household wastewater. Installing a graywater system lets you reuse that water on your landscape or your home's foundation, and can help lower your water bills since you will be paying for water once but using it twice.
- Program Summaries
-
Residential brochure, Folleto Residencial Español
Irrigation brochure
- Qualifying Water Providers
-
Water Conservation program participants must meet all eligibility requirements and receive water from Austin Water or one of the following water providers:
- Aqua Texas- Morningside
- Aqua Texas- Night Hawk WSC
- Aqua Texas- Rivercrest Water Systems
- City of Rollingwood
- City of Sunset Valley
- City of Westlake Hills
- Creedmoor-Maha WSC
- High Valley WSC
- Marsha WSC
- Mid-Tex Utilities
- North Austin MUD #1
- Northtown MUD
- Shady Hollow MUD
- Travis County WCID #10
- Village of San Leanna
- Wells Branch MUD
- Windermere Utility
Customers of these water providers, which purchase wholesale water from Austin Water, are eligible for most Water Conservation programs and services. Program guidelines will indicate if participation is limited to Austin Water direct customers.
