--- SOURCE: http://anaheim.net/936/Energy-Rebates-Incentives ---
Make your home more energy efficient by receiving a rebate to help offset the costs of purchasing qualified ENERGY STAR® appliances and home products.
Energy Programs
Participate in one of our programs to help you live a cleaner and greener lifestyle. We can help you recycle your old, operational refrigerator, perform an in-home evaluation of your electric and water usage, and even help you install a free shade tree for your home.

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/1481/Rebate-Guidelines-Application ---
- Home
- Departments
- Public Utilities
- Ways to Save
- Residential
- Energy Rebates & Programs
- Rebate Guidelines & Application
Rebate Guidelines & Application
After purchasing a qualifying conservation measure or ENERGY STAR® certified replacement appliance, please follow the steps below:
- Collect all appropriate supporting documents such as original, paid sales receipts or invoices, which must include the product’s brand name, the manufacturer model number, the purchase price and date, and, if available, the product’s efficiency information.
- Apply online by clicking the link and creating an account.
- Follow the instructions within the online rebate processing tool.
- Once you have submitted your application online, you can check its status by logging into your rebate account. Please note that applications will be denied if no return communication is received from the customer after three outreach attempts and/or within one year from the submission date.
- Paper applications may be requested by contacting by phone, email, or downloading online, ENGLISH or SPANISH
- An Anaheim Public Utilities representative may call to schedule a physical inspection of your installed appliance or conservation measure before issuing a rebate.
- We ask that you try to keep your inspection appointment to ensure that your application is processed in a timely manner. If you need to reschedule, please contact Anaheim Public Utilities at 714-408-4161.
- Rebate checks are normally mailed within 30 days from the date of approval.
*If you are applying for ENERGY STAR certified window rebates, you must also include a window incentive worksheet (PDF) (completed by your contractor) and the stickers that display the actual ultraviolet (UV) value and solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC).
- Residential Incentive: Home Incentive Programs provide customers with rebates to help lower the cost of investing in high efficiency products and measures. The incentive offer is limited to residential customer for residential use. The appliance must be installed in a residential dwelling within Anaheim Public Utilities (APU) service area. A residential dwelling is defined a single family home, condominium, apartment, or mobile home permanently located within APU service area. The dwelling must be fully constructed and occupied (no new construction).
- Required documentation: This application and a paid sales receipt for each product must be returned to the Rebate Processing Center office listed on the bottom of the application. Online purchases require submittal of the delivery slip. To expedite your application, please upload a copy of your APU bill. Window rebates require submittal of a window incentive worksheet.
- Limitations: In order to qualify for the Program, Applicant must be an APU electric service customer with any and all APU accounts in good standing. The incentive offer is on a first-come, first-service basis and is effective until funding is expended or the program is discontinued by APU. Maximum of one application per measure type per account service address every 5 years, unless approved by APU. The incentive amount will not exceed the purchase price. The incentive check will be mailed in approximately 30 days following application approval.
- Installation verification: Applicant understands and agrees that APU or its representative may inspect the installed product for installation verification before the incentive is paid.
- Delinquent accounts: Applicant agrees that any incentive may be credited towards any delinquent (as currently defined in the APU’s Rates, Rules and Regulations) utility bill(s) for which the Applicant is responsible whether the account(s) is open or closed.
- Applicant understands APU may withhold payment of incentive until all of the conditions listed herein are met.
- APU does not warrant, endorse, or assume liability for the quality, performance, or safety of the contractor and/or retailer or wholesaler. Performance of any product and acceptance of materials used is solely the applicants responsibility.
- Applicant is responsible for meeting all program requirements and for checking with state/county/city governments and homeowner’s association (if any) in the area regarding local conditions, restrictions, codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations prior to installation.
- Applicant must submit application within 1 year of purchase of the product.
- Note that insufficient or incorrect data may delay your rebate check.
- The incentive offer is on a first-come, first-serve basis and is effective until funding is expended or the program is discontinued by Anaheim Public Utilities.
For assistance with your application, or more information on qualifying criteria or the status of your rebate application, please call our rebate processing team at 714-408-4161, which is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., excluding holidays.
More Information
Visit the Environmental Protection Agency's ENERGY STAR® website for more information.
Contact Us
-
Rebate Processing
714-408-4161 or EmailOffice:
Mon - Fri: 8 am - 5 pm
Anaheim West Tower
201 S. Anaheim Blvd.
Anaheim, CA 9280

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/937/Refrigerator-Recycling-Rebate-Program ---
You will receive your incentive check within six (6) weeks of application receipt and approval.
Requirements
Must be Anaheim Public Utilities residential electric customers.
Only one operating unit may be recycled for incentive every five (5) years.
Recycled unit must be at minimum 10 cubic feet and a maximum 32 cubic feet. Mini refrigerators, such as wine coolers or dorm coolers, and commercial-sized refrigerators do not qualify.
Customers seeking information on bulky item collection services can be found here.

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/936/Energy-Rebates-Programs ---
Make your home more energy efficient by receiving a rebate to help offset the costs of purchasing qualified ENERGY STAR® appliances and home products.
Energy Programs
Participate in one of our programs to help you live a cleaner and greener lifestyle. We can help you recycle your old, operational refrigerator, perform an in-home evaluation of your electric and water usage, and even help you install a free shade tree for your home.

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.anaheim.net/DocumentCenter/View/64054/Home-Incentives-Application_April_2025 ---
Updated 4.3.2025 Page 1 of 2 
Application 
From Your Utilities Bill: Office Use: (          )
Customer Account Number Coupon # 
You Live in an: 1) Apartment Condo/Town House House Mobile Home 2) You Own You Rent 
Name on Utility Account: 
Last / First Name Phone Number 
Contact Person:  
(If different than above) Last / First Name Phone Number 
Installation Address: 
Street Address / Unit Number City Zip Code 
Mailing Address:  
(If different than above) Street Address / Unit Number City Zip Code 
Email Address:  Make Check Payable to: Name on the Utility Account Contact Person 
Applications must be submitted within 1 year of purchase. The following measures must meet requirements to qualify:  
Fire Resistant Attic Insulation; Fire Vents; Exterior Wall Insulation; Uninterruptible Power Supply; Portable Power Station; Window Film; and Floor/Box/
Window Fans (2 max). Replacement of the following Energy Star® appliances and/or conservation measures: Air duct repair/replacement; Air purifiers (2 max); 
Attic fans; Ceiling fans (3 max); Central A/C, Heat Pumps, Heat Pump Mini Split (15 SEER+ and 12.5 EER+); Dishwashers; Refrigerator; Room A/C (2 max); 
Variable Speed Pool Pump Motors; Whole House Fans; Heat Pump Dryer and Water Heater; Dusk to Dawn Security Lights (2 max); Smart Thermostat (Wi-Fi 
enabled, 2 max) Windows (window incentive worksheet required). Maximum one application per measure type per account service address every 5 years, 
unless approved by Anaheim Public Utilities.
ENERGY EFFICIENT ITEM INFORMATION OFFICE USE 
Item Replacing 
Existing? 
Purchase 
Date 
Price 
Paid Brand Model Incentive 
Amount 
Energy/Water 
Factor 
Total Incentive 
Amount 
**PLEASE READ AND SIGN THE PROGRAM GUIDELINES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE BEFORE SIGNING - BOTH DOCUMENTS ARE REQUIRED ** 
I certify that the information on this application is true and correct and that I have read, understand, and agree to the pro gram guidelines on this application. 
Applicant’s Signature: Date: 
Mail the completed application, receipts, and supporting documentation to: 
Home Incentives Programs • 201 S Anaheim Blvd., Suite 801 • Anaheim, CA 92805 
Questions?  (714) 765-4250  
FOR OFFICE USE: Application Received: Inspected on: Inspector’s Signature: 
Check Mailed on: Check No: Check Dated:  
ANAHEIM PUBLIC UTILITIES 
HOME INCENTIVES PROGRAMS 

Page 2 of 2 
ANAHEIM PUBLIC UTILITIES
HOME INCENTIVES PROGRAMS GUIDELINES 
 Please read the following Terms and Conditions carefully before signing: 
1. Residential incentives: Home Incentives Program provides customers with rebates to help lower the cost of 
investing in high efficiency products and measures. The incentive offer is limited to residential customers for 
residential use. The appliance must be installed in a residential dwelling within Anaheim Public Utilities (APU) 
service area. A residential dwelling is defined a single family home, condominium, apartment, or mobile home 
permanently located within APU service area. The dwelling must be fully constructed and occupied (no new 
construction).
2. Required documentation: This application and a paid sales receipt for each product must be returned to the 
Rebate Processing Center office listed on the bottom of the application. Online purchases require submittal of the 
delivery slip. To expedite your application, please upload a copy of your APU bill. Window rebates require submittal 
of a window incentive worksheet.
3. Limitations: In order to qualify for the Program, Applicant must be an APU electric service customer with any and 
all APU accounts in good standing. The incentive offer is on a first-come, first-service basis and is effective until 
funding is expended or the program is discontinued by APU. Maximum of one application per measure type per 
account service address every 5 years, unless approved by APU. The incentive amount will not exceed the 
purchase price. The incentive check will be mailed in approximately 30 days following application approval.
4. Installation verification: Applicant understands and agrees that APU or its representative may inspect the 
installed product for installation verification before the incentive is paid.
5. Delinquent accounts: Applicant agrees that any incentive may be credited towards any delinquent (as currently 
defined in the APU’s Rates, Rules and Regulations) utility bill(s) for which the Applicant is responsible whether the 
account(s) is open or closed.
6. Applicant understands APU may withhold payment of incentive until all of the conditions listed herein are met.
7. APU does not warrant, endorse, or assume liability for the quality, performance, or safety of the contractor and/or 
retailer or wholesaler. Performance of any product and acceptance of materials used is solely the applicants 
responsibility
8. Applicant is responsible for meeting all program requirements and for checking with state/county/city governments 
and homeowner’s association (if any) in the area regarding local conditions, restrictions, codes, ordinances, rules, 
and regulations prior to installation.
9. APPLICANT MUST SUBMIT APPLICATION WITHIN 1 YEAR OF PURCHASE OF THE PRODUCT. PLEASE 
NOTE THAT THE APPLICATION WILL BE DENIED IF NO COMMUNICATION OR FOLLOW-UP FROM THE 
CUSTOMER IS RECEIVED AFTER THREE ATTEMPTS AND/OR WITHIN ONE YEAR FROM THE SUBMISSION 
DATE.
Applicant has read and understood the terms and conditions of the Home Incentives Programs (“Program”) as set 
forth herein, and you hereby agree to comply with these terms and conditions and certify that your information on 
your application is true and correct. Applicant further understands that the Program is a voluntary program subject 
to the California Public Records Act and that all your information, including your personal data, may be subject to 
public disclosure. 
Applicant’s Signature:_________________________________________________   Date:__________________ 
Mail this signed programs guidelines sheet, along with the completed application, receipts, and supporting 
documentation to: 
Home Incentives Programs 
201 S Anaheim Blvd., Suite 801 
Anaheim, CA 92805 
Questions?  Please call us at (714) 765-4250 
