--- SOURCE: http://www.EnergySmartYES.com/ ---
Go Efficient. Go Electric.
Welcome to EnergySmart: your guide to healthier, safer, and more energy-efficient homes in Boulder County.
We’re here to help you feel safe and comfortable in your home, while also building resilience and adapting to Colorado’s changing climate.
Step 1: Energy Efficiency
It all starts with your home’s energy efficiency. Making sure that you aren’t wasting money on heat that leaks out or on appliances that use excess energy will make every other upgrade that much more impactful (and affordable).
Step 2: Electrification
Once you are comfortable with the efficiency of your home, the next step is replacing fossil fuel appliances with electric ones. All-electric appliances support healthier and safer indoor air quality, increased resistance to wildfire and smoke damage, fewer maintenance concerns, reduced energy costs, and decreased greenhouse gas pollution.
Step 3: Transportation
Switching to an electric vehicle (EV) or adding at-home charging can be done at any time! Waiting until your home is all-electric can help you make better decisions on equipment installs and more.
Step 4: Solar
Installing solar panels can be done at any time, but it’s better to wait until your home is sealed up and electrified so that you can better understand your electricity usage, and make more informed equipment decisions.
Jumping in.
Connect to rebates, contractors, and more to help make those first steps and investments a little less intimidating.
Get your Personalized Guide
Answer just a few questions to get a personalized step-by-step guide for upgrading your home, including cost estimates, rebate information, and more.
Click the button below to head to the Rewiring America website and get started.
Find Rebates
EnergySmart, certain Boulder County municipalities, the State of Colorado, and utility providers have rebates, discounts, and incentives that help you save money on home energy upgrades that don’t rely on burning fossil-fuels. Rebates are available on a first-come first-served basis while funding is available. Click Rebates in the menu at the top of website and get started.
Find a Contractor
EnergySmart’s list of contractors can help you find the right team for your project. These contractors are excited to work on energy efficiency and electrification projects, and have completed EnergySmart projects in the past.
Why Electrify?
When we burn fossil fuels like oil, coal, and gas, it creates pollution that heats up the planet and creates the climate crisis. This means more and worse floods, wildfires, droughts, and heatwaves.
To stop the climate crisis from getting worse, we need to stop burning fossil fuels. Our utilities are transitioning our electric grid from energy sources that burn fossil fuels to sources that create electricity through renewable sources.
However, many everyday activities like heating our homes, driving our cars, and even mowing our lawns still use fossil fuels regardless of whether or not our electricity grid is powered with clean energy . EnergySmart will help you make the switch to electric so you can stop burning fossil fuels in your home and plug into our increasingly greener grid.

--- SOURCE: https://energysmartyes.com/efficiency/ ---
Whether you want to electrify your appliances, install solar, or make other home upgrades, your first step should always be to assess and improve your home’s energy efficiency.
Without good sealing or insulation, your home will lose heated or cooled air, and you won’t see as many benefits or cost savings from other big-ticket upgrades if those aren’t addressed first.
If you don’t prioritize energy efficiency first, you may end up spending more than you need to on other upgrades, for a few reasons:
- A home that has been air sealed and insulated can often use a smaller (and therefore more affordable) heat pump to achieve the same results
- Residents that have minimized their electricity usage from appliances, lighting, and equipment can power their home with a smaller (and therefore more affordable) solar array and battery
Below, we have outlined three steps to successfully improving your home’s energy efficiency. Beginning with a home energy audit will help you really understand your home, and you can work directly with your auditor to see where it makes the most sense to begin with upgrades.
Not sure where to start?
Get a FREE personalized guide for upgrading your home. By answering just a few questions, you can get project recommendations, cost estimates, rebate information, recommended contractors, and more.

--- SOURCE: https://energysmartyes.com/efficiency/energyaudit/ ---
Home energy audits (sometimes called home energy assessments) help homeowners understand their residential energy consumption. Energy assessments typically provide a report on your home’s energy use and help determine the most cost-effective home improvements. They may also provide results on radon, carbon monoxide, and natural gas leak testing to help keep your home safe. The U.S. Department of Energy offers a great explainer on the different types of energy audits and their advantages.
Xcel Energy and Efficiency Works (which serves Longmont Power and Communications customers) provide incentives to get started. Check out the programs affiliated with your utility below to get started.
Home Energy Squad Program
Xcel Energy’s Home Energy Squad program sends an expert right to your home. For $150 (sometimes on sale for $100), you’ll receive an energy audit, several safety checks, and efficiency upgrades like LED lightbulbs, weather-stripping, aerators, smart thermostats, and more. Work and materials are included in the cost of your visit.
To qualify for a Home Energy Squad visit:
- You must be a residential customer of Xcel Energy in Colorado.
- Your home must have its own electric and/or gas utility account, and must be a detached single-family home or part of a building with four or fewer units.
- Installs offered depend on your home and the energy services you receive from Xcel Energy. For example, gas-only customers cannot receive LED bulbs, and electric-only customers with gas-heated hot water cannot receive a showerhead.
To qualify for a free smart thermostat:
- You must be an Xcel Energy electricity customer
- You must have central Air Conditioning
- You must enroll in Xcel Energy’s AC Rewards program
Customers can also purchase a smart thermostat from Xcel Energy’s online store that the Squad can install, dependent on existing wiring. Thermostat must be in original, unopened packaging for installation. Even if the above is met, installation is never guaranteed due to specific wiring situations.
Renters are eligible to participate in Home Energy Squad. Prior approval from the property owner/landlord is required.
Other restrictions may apply. Please call Xcel at 303-446-7910, option 2 with any questions.
The Home Energy Squad visit typically takes about 3 hours and is conducted at a time convenient for you. The visit will include:
- Visual inspection and installation of relevant efficiency upgrades
- Inspection of home exterior, insulation, and mechanical systems
- Air leak analysis with a Blower-Door diagnostic test
- Combustion safety test
- Carbon monoxide check
- Infrared imaging and analysis
- Full summary report with findings and recommendations
- Free advising service for upgrades and rebates
Please visit Xcel’s Home Energy Squad website or call Xcel at303-446-7910, option 2 with any questions.
Efficiency Works Homes
Efficiency Works Homes offers home assessments and free energy advising to residential customers, including identifying inefficiencies in your home, explaining benefits and upgrades, and helping plan or review projects.
Must be a Longmont Power and Communications customer.
Homeowners are required to have an in-person efficiency assessment to be eligible for rebates on window, insulation, or air-sealing projects.
Projects must be completed by an Efficiency Works service provider to be eligible for rebates. A list of providers can be found here.
Efficiency Works will work with you to confirm whether you qualify.
Energy Assessments allow customers to learn more about their home’s energy efficiency through visual inspections, measurements, and diagnostic testing performed by an energy advisor. Your advisor delivers a customized detailed report of the findings and will review the report with you and answer any questions you may have. Your advisor can also help connect you to one of our service providers when choosing to move forward with a project.
- Cost: $0-$60
- Time: 1-4 hours
Questions? Contact EfficiencyWorks at 877-981-1888 or learn more on the EfficiencyWorks website.
Not in Xcel or Efficiency Works territory?
Regardless of your utility provider, home energy audits/assessments are the most powerful tool for understanding your home and getting started on health and energy use improvements. While United Power, Poudre Valley REA, and Lyons municipal utilities do not offer rebates at this time, many private contractors will happily work with you to select and complete an energy assessment package that makes the most sense for your home and family.

--- SOURCE: https://energysmartyes.com/efficiency/insulation-and-air-sealing/ ---
Insulation and air sealing work together to help keep your home at a consistent temperature, and are often the first line of defense in energy efficiency upgrades because they make such a big difference in your energy use.
Air Sealing involves filling in gaps that allow outdoor air to flow in where we don’t want it to. Because air is a gas, even tiny gaps that we cannot see can lead to problems with retaining temperatures.
Insulation refers to how well your walls, roofing, and other exterior features maintain the temperature barrier between indoors and outdoors.
Air sealing and insulation work together to keep your home cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter, provide energy savings year-round, and also help with soundproofing and improved indoor air quality. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that homeowners can save an average of 15% on heating and cooling costs (or an average of 11% on total energy costs) by air sealing their homes and adding insulation in attics, floors over crawl spaces and basements.
Attic, Walls, Basement, or Crawlspace Treatments
The spaces between your main living area and the rest of the world are where your home is likely to transfer the most heat, whether that’s losing warmth in the winter or losing cool air in the summer. These projects can be more challenging to take on alone, but often have the greatest payoff in terms of regulating your home.
Window and Door Treatments
While replacing your windows and doors is always an option, that can get very time consuming and expensive very quickly. Other options exist that can be done for significantly less cost and with or without a contractor:
Insulation and Air Sealing FAQ
Insulation and air sealing often yield comfort improvements in homes. How much those issues are improved may depend on the current status of your insulation and air tightness and if there are other issues to take into account. Getting a Home Energy Audit can help determine what’s causing those comfort issues.
There are many insulation products to use that have different pros and cons. Visit this Department of Energy webpage detailing the various insulation products to learn more.
Many contractors have preferred vendors they use when selecting insulation products, so we recommend consulting with them on what they might think is the best fit for your home.
Ready to get started?
Some projects can be taken on as a DIY, while others would benefit from hiring a contractor to ensure best results. If you’re ready to start making calls and getting quotes, EnergySmart is here to help. Check out our contractor lists to get started.
Not sure where to start?
Get a FREE custom guide for upgrading your home. By answering just a few questions, you can get personalized recommendations, cost estimates, rebate information, and more.

--- SOURCE: https://energysmartyes.com/efficiency/saving-energy/ ---
Your appliances, equipment, lighting, and habits can also play a big role in your home’s energy efficiency. Upgrading to newer technology, even if it is a bit more expensive up front, can provide big savings on electricity usage and routine maintenance. Check out these low or no cost options to save energy at home, or scroll down for more ideas.
LED lightbulbs last 50x as long as incandescent light bulbs, and 5x as long as fluorescents. They are also brighter, cheaper, and use less electricity to run.
Smart thermostats, which allow you to control your home’s temperature remotely or “set and forget” a schedule, can lead to huge savings and also increase your comfort. Some utilities offer rebates to purchase and install smart thermostats–check out Energy Star’s rebate finder here.
Plugged-in electronics are always using energy, even if they are off. Smart power strips cut power to devices in “standby mode” and reduce this “vampire load”, saving you on your electricity bill. Learn more here.
When shopping for products, look for the Energy Star seal to make sure you aren’t inviting extra energy or water bills into your home. Watch this video for a short explainer.
