--- SOURCE: http://www.focusonenergy.com ---
Federally funded Home Energy Rebates are available. Take advantage of rebates to support your home energy project such as adding insulation and efficient heating and cooling equipment.
Get rebates and incentives for energy-saving projects and products. Explore free energy-saving product packs, shop discounted items in our Online Marketplace, and connect with trusted Trade Ally Contractors.
Ready to start? Use our Get Started tool to find rebates for your next project.
Focus on Energy empowers the people and businesses of Wisconsin to make smart energy decisions with enduring economic benefits.
Get rebates and incentives for energy-saving projects and products, plus customized solutions for your business type. Access expert Energy Advisors, Trade Ally Contractors, and training opportunities to maximize savings.
Grow your business with Focus on Energy. Join our Trade Ally network and deliver energy-saving solutions to Wisconsin homes and businesses.
Partner benefits:
Stand out—become a Trade Ally Contractor today!
Discover tools, tips, and resources to make your energy efficiency projects a success. Whether you’re a customer looking to save on energy costs or a contractor seeking guidance, Focus on Energy can help you achieve your goals.

--- SOURCE: http://www.focusonenergy.com/residential ---
Focus on Energy offers a range of rebates and services to support the energy efficiency efforts of Wisconsin residents. Each rebate is managed by our network of energy efficiency program specialists and trade allies. Our variety of rebates can help you save money and energy.
Check out our Get Started page to:
We help you update and build the most energy-efficient, durable, and comfortable home that fits your budget. Get start-to-finish support from a personal energy consultant to help you update or construct a home that meets your energy goals and stays within your budget. We can help you optimize your design, select efficient products and equipment, and access rebates and incentives.

--- SOURCE: http://www.focusonenergy.com/Business ---
Focus on Energy offers a range of incentives and services to support the energy efficiency efforts of Wisconsin businesses.
Each incentive is managed by our network of energy efficiency program specialists and Trade Allies. Our variety of incentives listed below can help you save money and energy.
Looking for tailored solutions that address your unique business needs? See our Solutions for Business.
