--- SOURCE: http://www.fpuc.com/electric/commercial/commercial-rebates/ ---
Commercial Electric Rebates
Florida Public Utilities offers residential electric rebates for businesses to help offset the cost of making energy efficient upgrades.
Report an Outage – Click Here
Leaks, Odors & Emergencies – Call 800.427.7712
Florida Public Utilities offers residential electric rebates for businesses to help offset the cost of making energy efficient upgrades.
Jumpstart your HVAC energy-savings with up to a $100 rebate when you:
Upgrade to energy efficient industrial chillers and earn rebates on each kWh saved!
Enjoy bright lights and earn per kWh rebates when upgrading to LED lights and energy efficent control system upgrades!
| Commercial Rebate Amounts | ||
|---|---|---|
| Appliance Type | Customer Rebate | Dealer Incentive |
| Type 1 - Heat Pump Replacing Resistance Heat | $100 | $75 |
| Type 2 - Heat Pump Replacement | $100 | $25 |
| Type 3 - Air Conditioner Replacement | $100 | $25 |
| Type 4 - New Heat Pump or Air Conditioner | $100 | $25 |
In order to be eligible for a rebate, the commercial customer must:
Additional Details:
Upgrade existing water-cooled centrifugal chillers, water-cooled scroll or screw chillers, and air-cooled electric chillers—and qualify for up to $175 per kW of additional savings above the minimum efficiency levels!
The minimum qualifications for efficiency are as follows:
Water-Cooled Centrifugal Chillers:
Water-Cooled Scroll or Screw Chillers:
Air-Cooled Electric Chillers (any size):
In order to be eligible for a rebate, the commercial customer must:
Additional Details:
The customer must send a project proposal to FPU. An FPU Representative will then schedule an on-site inspection both before and after the installation.
Convert your existing roof to a cool roof or install a new cool roof using Energy Star materials — and qualify for a rebate!
Rebate Amounts:
In order to be eligible for a rebate, the commercial customer must:
Additional Details:
Call 888.220.9356 and schedule your on-site inspection to get started!
Customer Service: 800.427.7712
Sales and Rebates: 888.220.9356
Florida Public Utilities is a subsidiary of Chesapeake Utilities Corporation.
Chesapeake Utilities Corporation (“Chesapeake Utilities”) is an energy delivery Company publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “CPK” (NYSE:CPK). Chesapeake Utilities is not, nor has it ever been, affiliated with Chesapeake Energy Corporation.
For Example: A 200-ton chiller saving 15,741 kWh per year can earn a rebate of $3,426
Add or Activate Electric Service
Add or Activate Natural Gas Service
"*" indicates required fields
"*" indicates required fields
The Florida Public Utilities website may contain links to websites other than those of Florida Public Utilities or its affiliates (“Linked Sites”). The Linked Sites are neither owned by nor under the control of, Florida Public Utilities or its Affiliates. Florida Public Utilities is not responsible for the contents of any Linked Site including, without limitation, any link contained in a Linked Site, or any changes or updates to a Linked Site. Florida Public Utilities and its affiliates are providing these links as a convenience, and the inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement by Florida Public Utilities of the site or any association with its operators.

--- SOURCE: https://fpuc.com/residential-electric/residential-electric-rebates/ ---
Residential Electric Rebates
Florida Public Utilities offers residential electric rebates for homes to help offset the cost of making energy efficient upgrades.
Report an Outage – Click Here
Leaks, Odors & Emergencies – Call 800.427.7712
Florida Public Utilities offers residential electric rebates for homes to help offset the cost of making energy efficient upgrades.

--- SOURCE: https://fpuc.com/residential/how-to-redeem-a-rebate/ ---
How to Redeem a Rebate
To redeem your Florida Public Utilities (FPU) rebate, submit your rebate claim online or through the mail.
Redeeming Online Rebates
To claim an online rebate, visit our Online Rebate Center. Here you can find everything you need, step-by-step, to complete the online application. This includes detailed instructions on how to upload the required online rebate documents, as well as a dedicated link to track your online rebate.
Redeeming Mail-In Rebates
In order to redeem your mail-in rebate, you must provide FPU with three items.
- Proof of purchase or a receipt from the appliance retailer
- Proof of installation for the appliance purchased (receipts preferred but photos accepted)
- An FPU Customer Rebate Form (download one of the forms below)
*Please note: You must file for your appliance/equipment rebates within one year from your purchase date[s]. Rebate offer expires at end of 12-month period.

--- SOURCE: https://fpuc.com/residential-electric/programs-and-services/ ---
Programs and Services
At FPU, we offer our customers far more than energy. Get paid to upgrade your electric appliances. Stabilize your energy costs. Experience a level of service that goes above and beyond the basics—and see how FPU is offering you more than ever before. Whether you’re interested in learning more about our wide variety of value-added services or you’re ready to enroll in a specific program, it’s time to take advantage of FPU for a lot more than energy.
Interconnection Application for Customer-Owned Renewable Generation Systems (Solar Application)
If you installed a renewable generation system and are interested in interconnecting with FPU’s electric system, please complete this application in order to do so.
For New Solar Customer in our NE Division (Nassau County, Amelia Island):
Please email paperwork and requests to [email protected] or mail to:
Attn: Curtis Boatright
Florida Public Utilities Company
780 Amelia Island Parkway
Fernandina Beach, FL 32034
For New Solar Customer in our NW Division (Jackson County, Calhoun County, and Liberty County):
Please email paperwork and requests to [email protected] or mail to:
Attn: Shane Magnus
Florida Public Utilities Company
PO Box 610
Marianna, FL 32447

--- SOURCE: https://fpuc.com/residential-electric/programs-and-services/energy-education-programs/ ---
Energy Education Programs
Low Income Energy Outreach Program
Residential Customers Only
FPUC’s Low Income Energy Outreach Program partners with Department of Economic Opportunity approved Low Income Weatherization Program operators by offering Residential Energy Surveys scheduled by the Low Income Weatherization Program operators, weatherization contractor training, distributing energy efficiency educational literature to participants, and hosting energy conservation events customized for low income households. The Low Income Energy Outreach Program consists of the following four major components.
Residential Energy Surveys:
The Low Income Weatherization Program operators will be responsible for scheduling Residential Energy Surveys to be conducted by FPU with the low-income households. Each low-income household receiving an FPU Residential Energy Survey will receive two LED bulbs.
Contractor Training:
Training will be provided by FPU to educate and inform weatherization contractors about thermal envelope improvement best practices, product procurement ideas, and emerging weatherization strategies. Training events will occur on an annual basis throughout each of the counties FPU serves. These efforts will include coordination with the Weatherization Assistance Program Technical Assistance Center.
Demographic Targeted Energy Materials:
Energy Conservation materials that are specifically geared towards low income households will be compiled by FPU and provided by the approved weatherization organization performing the energy improvements.
Community Conservation Events:
Annual Community Conservation events will be conducted in each of the territories that FPU serves. These events will educate and inform low income households about the weatherization programs offered in their county and depending upon the event each participant will receive two LED bulbs along with information about reading electric bills and energy conservation tips.
In order to be eligible for this program, the residential customer must:
- Be the owner of the residence, which must be located in FPU’s electric service area
- Meet the income verification requirements specified by the local low income weatherization organization
- Reside in a home greater than three years old
- Must receive an FPU Residential Energy Survey if deemed required by the low income weatherization organization
Commercial Energy Consultation Program
Commercial Customers Only
Contact FPU for your free Energy Consultation today and an FPU representative will:
- Conduct a site visit to educate you about FPU’s commercial DSM programs
- Assess the potential for applicable demand side management (DSM) plans
- Conduct an electric bill review
- Offer commercial energy saving suggestions
- Inform you about FPU’s commercial online energy efficiency resources and tools
Commercial customers seeking to participate in the Commercial Energy Consultation Program can schedule a consultation by calling 800.427.7712.
