--- SOURCE: http://www.hawaiienergy.com/ ---
We're here to help you make smart energy choices.
Our role is to make it easy for everyone in Hawaii to play their part in the clean energy movement.
For Residents
For Business
Latest News

--- SOURCE: https://hawaiienergy.com/for-homes/rebates/ ---
Rebates
Save Money with Hawaii Energy’s Rebates.
Hawaii Energy’s cash rebates help you invest in energy-efficient equipment for your home. These installations quickly pay for themselves and the savings keep coming year after year.
Rebates are available to residential electric utility ratepayers on Hawaii Island, Lanai, Maui, Molokai and Oahu only. They are available on a first-come, first-served basis and are subject to availability of funds, restrictions, change and/or discontinuation without advance notice. Kauai residents are serviced by a utility cooperative and therefore not eligible for Hawaii Energy rebates. Please contact the Kauai Island Utility Cooperative for more information at (808) 246-4300.
the homes rebates brochure.
Phishing We may send you emails about our services. Likewise, we may from time to time call the phone number associated with your account. However, we will never email you or call you to ask for your social security number, date of birth, credit card information or online logon credentials. We recommend always protecting your information by staying aware of what you can do to prevent it. For more information, please visit the Federal Trade Commission Consumer Information website here.

--- SOURCE: https://hawaiienergy.com/for-homes/rebates/water-heating/ ---
Water Heating Rebates
Your home’s largest energy consumer is your electric water heater. Switching to a more energy-efficient option can save you up to 40% on your electric bill. Making the switch is even easier with Hawaii Energy’s Water Heating Rebates to save you even more money on your electric bill.
Need help selecting the right water heater? Visit our resources page, click here.
We’re making improvements to better serve you:
A new application portal
is on its way!
Meanwhile, download/print the applications you need any time. And if you need assistance, contact us:
Toll Free 877-231-8222
hawaiienergy@honeywell.com
Solar Water Heating
NEW INCREASE: Up to $2,750 INSTANT REBATE
A solar water heater in your home is the best way to save money on your electric bill. Combined with state tax credits, Hawaii Energy’s newly increased rebates can help you save an incredible amount on this upgrade.
Rebate Instructions > CLICK HERE <
- Step 1: Find a participating Clean Energy Ally contractor.
- Step 2: Schedule the installation with the CEA.
- Step 3: Upon completion of the installation, the instant rebate will be deducted from your invoice. The CEA will submit the rebate application on your behalf.
*Cannot be combined with any other Hawaii Energy rebates or offers.
Solar Water Heater Tune-Up
NEW INCREASE: Up to $325 INSTANT REBATE
Already have solar water heating? Regular maintenance is the key to getting the most benefits out of your solar water heating system. Hawaii Energy recommends a maintenance tune-up for solar water heating systems every 5 years. Learn more about this service here.
New rebate increase! You can now receive up to a $375 rebate when your tune-up is completed by one of our participating contractors.
Rebate Instructions > CLICK HERE <
- Step 1: Find a participating Clean Energy Ally contractor.
- Step 2: Schedule the service with the CEA.
- Step 3: Upon completion of the service, the instant rebate will be deducted from your invoice. The CEA will submit the rebate application on your behalf.
*Cannot be combined with any other Hawaii Energy rebates or offers.
Heat Pump Water Heater
UP TO $700 INSTANT REBATE
Another option for reducing your water heating cost is to install an ENERGY STAR® heat pump water heater for your home. Heat pump water heaters are 2-3x more efficient than a conventional water heater, cutting your water heating costs in half.
Get up to a $700 instant, in-store rebate for this cost-effective upgrade. No forms necessary, your rebate is reflected in the purchase price! Rebates available:
- $500: for 40-54 gallon size
- $700: for 55-82 gallon size
Learn more about heat pump water heaters, click here.
Rebate Instructions > CLICK HERE <
- Step 1: Visit a participating retailer (listed below).
- Step 2: Find and purchase the eligible product. Must be ENERGY STAR® certified, 40 to 82 gallon size (Eligible size differs by participating retailer.)
- Step 3: Your in-store instant rebate is included in the final price.
Participating locations:
- Ferguson\The Plumbing Source
- Home Depot
- Lowe’s
- Inter-Island Solar Supply
- PACE Supply
*Cannot be combined with any other Hawaii Energy rebates or offers.
Heat Pump Water Heater Tune-Up
$200 INSTANT REBATE
Regular maintenance of your water heater is important. It can extend the life of the system and helps to avoid early replacement costs. If you have a heat pump water heater, we suggest having a tune-up service performed every 3 years. To see a list of what a tune-up service covers, click here.
Rebate Instructions > CLICK HERE <
- Step 1: Find a participating Clean Energy Ally contractor.
- Step 2: Schedule the service with the CEA.
- Step 3: Upon completion of the service, the instant rebate will be deducted from your invoice. The CEA will submit the rebate application on your behalf.
*Cannot be combined with any other Hawaii Energy rebates or offers.
Tax Credit Available
* This measure may qualify for valuable Hawaii state tax credits. For applicability of any tax credits, please check with your tax professional.

--- SOURCE: https://hawaiienergy.com/for-homes/rebates/lighting/ ---
Lighting
Light the Way to Energy Savings
Making the switch to energy-efficient lighting is the quickest and easiest way to start saving money. You can save up to 90% on your lighting energy costs!
LEDs: Today’s Best Choice
Understanding the difference between your lighting options can show you how LEDs stack up against the rest.
LED (Light-Emitting Diode) bulbs produce light by moving electrons around (through semiconductor material), rather than using a filament or gas. This requires very small amounts of energy and makes them more durable, safer and cooler to the touch. And, with smart bulb technology, control your lights from smart devices and even change it’s colors. LED technology and pricing have improved greatly in recent years. And, since they last longer (25x longer than incandescent), you’ll save on replacement cost too.
CFLs (Compact Fluorescent Lamp) use a gas mixture “warmed up” by electrical currents to produce light. Although CFLs are not the most efficient option on the market, they produce far less heat and last 10x longer than incandescent bulbs.
Incandescent bulbs use a filament to produce heat, which then produces light. That’s why these lamps are usually hot – roughly 90% of the energy used to make light escapes every time. Halogen bulbs, which work similarly, are also very inefficient and run extremely hot. Eventually, the filament will break and the bulb will “burn out”.
You can download the PDF here.
Tools & Resources
Energy Smart 4 Homes
Your home may be eligible for cost-free lighting upgrades.
Frequently Asked Questions
All you need to know about LEDs.
Lighting Worksheet
Details on how to select the right LED for your home.

--- SOURCE: https://hawaiienergy.com/for-homes/rebates/appliances/ ---
Appliance Rebates
Switching out your old appliances to ENERGY STAR® certified models will help you save energy immediately. Our rebates can help with up-front costs, and your savings can help you recoup part of your investment.
Check out our guide below* to see if it’s time to upgrade your old appliance.
We’re making improvements to better serve you:
A new application portal
is on its way!
Meanwhile, download/print the applications you need any time. And if you need assistance, contact us:
Toll Free 877-231-8222
hawaiienergy@honeywell.com
You can download the PDF here*.
*The cost of electricity and savings vary over time, so it’s important to note that efficient appliances provide many other major benefits and hidden savings. Design changes made to use less electricity will often improve the appliance in other ways, resulting in a better quality product for you, with less maintenance needed. For example, ENERGY STAR® washers and dryers can typically wash more clothes in a single load and dry them faster. Also, let’s not forget that you’ll be making a significant contribution toward reducing harmful greenhouse gas emissions and making Hawai‘i a better place for future generations.
Refrigerator Trade-up
$250 REBATE
Old refrigerators can use as much as twice the energy as a new ENERGY STAR® certified refrigerator. If it’s time for an upgrade, you can get a $250 rebate when you purchase a qualifying ENERGY STAR® certified refrigerator from a participating retailer.
Rebate Instructions > CLICK HERE <
Please note: This rebate requires that you have a working refrigerator (14 cu. ft or larger) to trade in.
- Step 1: Purchase a new ENERGY STAR® certified refrigerator (greater than 16 cu. ft.) from a participating retailer. At the time of purchase, arrange to have your old, working refrigerator picked up by your retailer.
- Step 2: Fill out the rebate application. You can download this using the button below.
- Step 3: Sign the application and mail to Hawaii Energy, P.O. Box 3920, Honolulu, HI 96812 and must be postmarked within sixty (60) days of the purchase. Or, you may also email your application HawaiiEnergy@honeywell.com.
*The Rid-A-Fridge and Trade-Up offer may not be combined. Trade-Up applications are available on a first-come, first-served basis with approved retailers during point of purchase, to ensure proper recycling. Rebate is subject to change without notice.
Phishing: We may occasionally send you emails about our services and call the phone number associated with your account. However, we will never email you or call you asking for your social security number, date of birth, credit card info or online logon credentials. We recommend staying aware of what you can do to prevent phishing scams by visiting the Federal Trade Commission Consumer Information website here.
“Rid-A-Fridge” Recycling Offer
$75 REBATE
Keeping a second refrigerator or freezer in your basement or garage could be wasting as much as $1,036 per year depending on its age and size. Let us recycle that old, working refrigerator/freezer for FREE and pay you! Residents of Hawaii island, Maui County and Oahu will receive $75 for each one.
Click here to learn more.
Heat Pump Water Heater
UP to $700 INSTANT REBATE
An ENERGY STAR® certified heat pump water heater is 2-3x more efficient than standard models. Get an in-store instant rebate at these participating retailers: Ferguson/The Plumbing Store, Home Depot, Lowe’s, PACE, or Inter-Island Solar Supply. No forms are necessary, your rebate is reflected in the purchase price! Click here to learn about the this rebate.
Already have a heat pump water heater? Get a $200 rebate towards a tune-up service today!
Click here to find a contractor now.
Washers & Dryers
You can save loads of money and energy by upgrading to an energy efficient washer and dryer. Purchase an ENERGY STAR® certified washer and/or dryer for cutting edge technology and the highest energy savings possible. Look for the ENERGY STAR logo on products at local retailers for the models with the best values.
Dishwashers
Washing your dishes in a new ENERGY STAR® certified dishwasher can reduce your energy use by at least 10% in comparison to standard models. It can also save an average of 3,870 gallons of water over its lifetime. Look for the ENERGY STAR logo on products at local retailers for the models with the best values.
