--- SOURCE: http://www.lbwl.com/EnergySavers ---
Welcome to the Lansing Board of Water & Light's Carbon Neutrality Programs, where our comprehensive range of initiatives, from renewable energy projects to energy efficiency programs, reflects our dedication to creating a cleaner, more resilient Lansing.
Residential Programs
Programs for homeowners and renters.
Business Programs
Programs for commercial and small business owners.
Residential Programs
Hometown Energy Savers®
Appliance Recycling
Earn a rebate and prevent the release of harmful refrigerants when you let BWL recycle your old refrigerators, freezers, dehumidifiers and room air conditioners.
ENERGY STAR® Appliances
Purchase and install qualifying efficient appliances to save on upfront costs with rebates from BWL and save for years to come with reduced energy costs.
Heating and Cooling
Optimize your home's heating and cooling systems for efficiency with rebates for tune-ups and equipment upgrades, ensuring a comfortable living space while minimizing energy waste and lowering your bills.
Home Energy Visit
Our Home Energy Visit program is designed to assist households in improving energy efficiency and lowering utility bills through in-person assessments to identify cost saving opportunities.
Electrification Programs
BWL offers rebates for residents looking to reduce their carbon emissions by making the switch from fossil fuels to electrically powered equipment such as lawn tools, induction cooking and e-bikes.
Electric Vehicle Charging Program
BWL provides a rebate for residents who are installing their own level 2 charger equipment.
Peak Power Partner Demand Response Program
Residential electric customers who enroll a smart thermostat will simultaneously help manage energy consumption during times of high demand or grid stress and earn incentives.
Renewable Energy
Distributed Generation
Customers can receive payment for excess energy returned to BWL’s electric grid through the Distributed Generation Program and installing your own solar array.
GreenWise Renewable Power Program
Residential customers can encourage the growth of more utility-scale renewable energy and lower costs for all customers by subscribing to BWL’s GreenWise Renewable Power program.
Tax Credits
The federal government offers numerous tax incentives for many items that save energy, electrify a gas appliance or vehicle, or generate clean energy.
Interactive Home Energy Tools
Residential customers can find more tools including a lighting calculator, virtual home energy advisor and more.
Business Programs
Hometown Energy Savers®
Commercial & Industrial Incentives
BWL offers commercial customers an option for virtually any upgrade that can help your business save money and energy.
Small Business
BWL offers higher rebate amounts for some projects to help small businesses thrive while minimizing their environmental impact.
Multifamily
Own or manage a multifamily property? The Hometown Energy Savers® program can help you and your residents save energy.
Electric Forklifts
Looking to cut down on poor indoor air quality or reduce noise at your business? BWL now provides rebates for making the switch to an electric forklift from gas or propane.
Commercial Electric Vehicles, Fleet and Charging
Transition your commercial fleet to electric vehicles (EVs) to reduce emissions and operational costs.
Renewable Energy
Commercial Solar – Distributed Generation
Reduce your commodity charges and earn money at a market rate for the energy returned to BWL’s electric system by installing your own solar through the Distributed Generation program.
GreenWise Renewable Power Program
Businesses have the chance to buy into BWL’s renewable future by purchasing renewable energy credits through our GreenWise Renewable Power Program.
Tax Credits
The federal government offers numerous tax incentives for many items that save energy, electrify a gas appliance or vehicle, or generate clean energy.

--- SOURCE: https://www.lbwl.com/about-bwl/clean-energy/energy-waste-reduction-and-renewable-energy-plans ---
The following materials include Energy Waste Reduction and Renewable Energy Annual Reports that BWL was required to file with the Michigan Public Service Commission through 2021 pursuant to Michigan Public Act 342 of 2016 (“Act 342”), as well as informal reports containing similar information, which have been produced by BWL staff and presented to the BWL Board of Commissioners from time to time since the sunset of the Act 342 filing requirement.

--- SOURCE: https://www.lbwl.com/installsolar ---
Install My Own Solar
BWL offers customers the ability to generate their own electricity and support renewable energy. Our distributed generation program enables customers to install a renewable energy system, connect to the electric utility grid and send electricity back to the grid at times when their generation exceeds their own use and receive compensation associated with the electricity sent back to the grid.
For questions regarding solar electricity for your home or business, or to receive more information on BWL’s new distributed generation program, email distributedgeneration@lbwl.com or call 517-702-6076.
Step One: Find out if solar is right for you
First, contact BWL to discuss the size of the system you are considering, prior to purchasing any equipment or beginning the installation process. Email distributedgeneration@lbwl.com or call 517-702-6076 for more information.
Step Two: Make your home or business energy-efficient
Your best savings will always be the energy you don’t use. To maximize the benefits of your own solar power system, make sure the electricity it generates is not lost to energy-inefficiency in your home or business. Learn more about saving energy and money in your home, as well as rebates and incentives available through BWL’s Energy Savers program.
Step Three: Making the purchase
You’ve passed our informational quiz, analyzed the savings potential of installing a solar power system and taken steps to make your home more energy efficient. Now it’s time to begin.
Selecting a contractor
To install a solar electricity system on your home or business, you will need to work with a solar contractor to submit your electrical permits and interconnection application. Find out How to Select a Contractor here.
Assessing costs
With solar power becoming more available, equipment costs are declining. Installed system costs can be as little as $3 per watt or perhaps even less. Financing through Michigan Saves is available for qualifying solar PV systems. Beware of zero money down solar financing agreements, as they will often leave you paying more for your monthly electrical bills, especially in the winter when there are fewer hours of daylight (see Selecting a Solar Contractor for more information on properly assessing costs of a solar power system).
Incentives
BWL offers a solar PV rebate of $500 per installed kilowatt, up to $2,000 (4 kW). The Solar Rebate Application must be submitted to receive this incentive.
Distributed Generation Outflow Credit
BWL will purchase excess solar energy produced by customers who are enrolled in the Distributed Generation Program. Below is a chart that shows how the rate is calculated:
| Source of Distributed Generation Credit | Credit Per-kWh Outflowed |
| Average On-Peak Cost of Energy (2021-2023) | $0.050 |
| Capacity Credit Average (2021-2023) | $0.012 |
| Renewable Energy Credit Value | $0.013 |
| Total Outflow Credit | $0.075 |
Average Cost of Energy: This value was calculated based on the peak average cost of energy between 2021-2023 when customer’s solar panels are most likely to be generating electricity and exporting to the grid.
Capacity Credit Average: This value is calculated by importing the per-kWh value for a capacity credit from the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) for 2021-2023
Renewable Energy Credit Value: This value comes from enrolling in BWL’s voluntary green price program.
Step Four: Submit application
Before the contractor starts work on your new solar power system, you must submit an Interconnection Application and review the rules & regulations.
For information on BWL’s Interconnection Procedure, please view the following document.

--- SOURCE: https://www.lbwl.com/greenwise ---
GreenWise Renewable Power
Return to Programs
GreenWise Power is a voluntary renewable power program for customers looking to purchase their energy from cleaner, renewable sources. Customers can purchase renewable energy for 1.3 cents per kWh of electricity, which is then added to the customer’s monthly electric bill. Customers can subscribe to GreenWise in two different ways- incrementally up to 5% of their monthly usage, or in blocks of 250 kWh. Customers who match over 85% of their energy usage each month can then claim that their home or business is powered with 100% renewable energy.
Frequently Asked Questions
- BWL has contracts in place that help supply energy to the grid from renewable energy facilities. Customers participating in GreenWise pay for the incremental cost of service from the renewable facility.
- BWL then utilizes the Michigan Renewable Energy Certification System (MIRECS) program to retire a corresponding number of Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) on the customer’s behalf.
- Customers who subscribe, receive a charge on their bill in addition to their energy use and all surcharges. This program is not designed to lower your energy bill.
- There is no installation or extra wiring required. The renewable energy facilities place the energy on to the grid to be used in lieu of a carbon-fueled facility, giving customers an option to support renewable energy without needing to install renewable equipment at their home or business
- BWL wants to provide a choice for any interested customers looking to source their energy from cleaner energy sources, and support programs that aid in the development of future renewable projects.
- Many companies asked us for a way to help them meet internal sustainability goals, and this is one of the programs that BWL can offer to help support those goals.
- Customers who sign up get the knowledge that they are contributing to the development of renewable energy resources in our state.
- All electric customers are eligible to enroll in the program.
- The average BWL residential customer uses 576 kWh per month (Fiscal Year 2021).
- For commercial and industrial customers, please contact BWL at greenwise@lbwl.com to review your usage and discuss a potential subscription to the GreenWise program.
- Call 517-702-6483, send an email with your name and address to greenwise@lbwl.com, or fill out our online form below
Get Started
To get started, please fill out and submit the form below.

--- SOURCE: https://www.lbwl.com/customers/save-money-energy/commercial-industrial-incentives ---
Commercial & Industrial Incentives
Running a successful business takes a lot of effort – and we believe energy costs shouldn’t be one of your worries. That’s why we’re making it easier and more affordable for business customers to make energy-saving improvements – with valuable rebates from Hometown Energy Savers®!
New construction projects may also be eligible.
Incentives for Energy Savings
Financial incentives are available for the purchase and installation of almost any type of efficient electrical equipment you rely on to keep your business running.
Prescriptive incentives are available for select lighting, HVAC, and refrigeration projects. Straightforward prescribed rebate amounts and specified equipment requirements are identified within the application.
Custom incentives are available for larger, complex projects requiring a tailored solution. Incentives are based on the annual electric energy savings.
The Hometown Energy Savers® program offers incentives for nearly any project type, including:
- Compressed Air
- Indoor Agriculture
- Lighting
- Non-Lighting (VFDs, Computer Room Air Conditioning, HVAC, Refrigeration, Food Service, Industrial, etc)
- Custom
Pre-approval is no longer required for every commercial project. Small Business customers under 25,000 sq ft are waived from pre-approval. Visit the Small Business Program page to learn more and apply for incentives.
Get started by selecting your path below.
I Need Pre-Approval
My project includes custom measures, is over $10,000 in incentives and/or is new construction. Apply for pre-approval BEFORE starting your project.
I’m Ready to Get Incentives
I didn’t need pre-approval. My project is complete and I’m ready to submit an application.
Find a Contractor
Need help finding a contractor? Consider using a Hometown Energy Savers® participating Trade Ally. These contractors have completed at least one project through the program.
Are you a Contractor?
Have you already or are you interested in helping BWL customers navigate the Hometown Energy Savers® program? Sign up to become a Trade Ally Contractor with the program. You will be included on the website for customers looking for a contractor and receive regular updates from the program. See existing Trade Allies.
Have Questions?
Unsure if you need pre-approval? Don’t see your energy-saving project listed on the applications? Fill out the form below or give us a call at 800-573-3503 and we’ll help you get started!
