--- SOURCE: http://www.maricopa.gov/797/Planning-Development ---
- Home
- Departments
- Planning & Development
Planning & Development
SPECIAL NOTICE
Maricopa County is developing the Framework 2040 Comprehensive Plan – a document which guides growth and development for the next decade and beyond.
Visit framework2040.com to learn how to participate, attend meetings and be heard!
The Board of Supervisors has approved the Maricopa County Zoning Ordinance update with the goal of making the ordinance easier to read, understand, and utilize.
Visit Maricopa County Zoning Ordinance Update | Maricopa County, AZ to learn more. The updated MCZO will be available on-line and effective on January 9, 2026.
IMPORTANT!
All Planning and Development invoices and payments are made through Permit Center. The department will NEVER request a wire transfer.
If you have any questions, please contact 602-506-3301.
We offer permitting and planning services that allow neighborhoods in unincorporated Maricopa County to grow in a safe, balanced way.
COMMON REQUESTS
CONTACT US
Submit a question using our online inquiry system
p: 602-506-3301
Location & Hours
PERMITTING UPDATES
Can't Find Your Documents?
During the conversion to Permit Center, some document links may have been disrupted. If you can't find your documents in Permit Center, try this document search: https://edms.maricopa.gov/eplpav/
- Choose “Historical Plan Document” from the Search Type.
- Enter the permit or planning case number in the “Plan Number” field.
- Click Search.
- Documents will appear on the right.
- Click a document to open it.
Example Search
CONNECT WITH US
SPOTLIGHT
-
Virtual Inspections Available:
Electrical Service Replacement or Upgrade to 400A, Main Breaker Derate for PV Prep, Minor Electrical Repairs, Repair/Replace Gas Line, Minor Plumbing Repairs, Gas/Electrical Clearances, Sewer/Septic Lines
Apply Now
-
Framework 2040 Maricopa County Comprehensive Plan
Maricopa County is updating its Comprehensive Plan to guide future growth and development.
Participate and Learn More
-
Regulatory
Outreach / EROP
Provide stakeholder input regarding the adoption and amendment of regulatory requirements.
Read More
JOIN OUR TEAM
The Maricopa County Planning and Development Department provides a wide range of services for unincorporated Maricopa County including land use planning and entitlement, building permit review and inspection, and code compliance. We strive to deliver these services to our community in a responsive, resourceful and results-oriented manner. Thanks to a strong economy and year-round sunshine, Maricopa County is currently the fastest growing county in the nation. This growth creates exciting opportunities for professionals in the planning, construction and engineering fields to shape the future of the built environment through a career with the Maricopa County Planning and Development Department.
