--- SOURCE: http://depsc.delaware.gov/electric.shtml ---
In 1999, the General Assembly passed legislation restructuring the electric industry in Delaware. Prior to restructuring, the generation, transmission, and distribution of electric power by investor-owned utilities was fully regulated by the PSC. With restructuring, the generation of electric power became deregulated, leaving only distribution services under the regulatory control of the PSC. The pricing of electric transmission is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Opens in new window
Delmarva Power: Website Opens in new window – Delaware Tariff Opens in new window
Opens in new window Electric Choice – Customers of the Delaware Electric Cooperative and Delmarva Power may now have a choice in which company will provide their electric energy supply (distribution of electric will still remain with the respective utility). For more information on electric customer choice in Delaware, please visit the Customer Electric Choice Opens in new window page.
Delmarva Power Integrated Resource Plan
On November 30, 2016, Delmarva Power & Light Company filed an Integrated Resource Plan (“IRP”) with the Public Service Commission. Such submission is required by 26 Del. C. §1007(c) (1) and Commission regulations found at 26 Del. Admin. C. §3010. The IRP reflects the end result of an integrated resource planning process by Delmarva during which it has systematically evaluated all actions or options for procuring, creating, or load-managing electric supply to meet, at minimal cost, the needs of its Standard Offer Supply retail customers over a ten-year planning period. Read the plan Opens in new window.
General Information
For general consumer information, including how to file a complaint, please visit our Consumer Assistance page.
Delaware Public Service Commission Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Delmarva Power Opens in new window provides important consumer information on billing, customer service issues and safety.
Consumer Reference – The following websites offer consumer information about electric issues:
The Delaware Division of Energy and Climate Opens in new window offers educational material on a wide variety of energy issues, including energy conservation, energy and the environment, green energy, and others.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Opens in new window
U.S. Department of Energy Opens in new window
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) Opens in new window
Energy Information Administration Opens in new window
A list of electric related cases filed with the Commission is available on the Commission’s Regulated Utility Filings page. Cases filed after July 7, 2014 are available through the DelaFile E-filing system. Opens in new window
Following is a list of cases that have, or are likely to, generate a significant amount of public interest. To assist the public with participation in these matters, summaries with docket numbers are provided below along with a link to our Delafile system for related documents.
All case related documents are available for review by appointment at the Commission Office in Dover, Delaware.
PSC Docket No. 24-0868 – On July 17, 2024, Delmarva Power & Light Company filed an application with the Commission seeking approval to file an alternative form of rate regulation called a Performance Based Plan that incorporates a fully forecasted test period of up to 36 months, an Earnings Sharing Mechanism, and Performance Incentive Mechanisms. The application is available for review through the DelaFile E-Filing System.
Electric Industry Restructuring in Delaware
Regulatory Authority: 26 Delaware Code, Chapter 10 Opens in new window
List of Certified Electric Suppliers can be found on the customer electric choice page along with additional contact information. Before switching, we encourage you to look at this list of questions to ask potential electric suppliers Opens in new window.
Customer-Owned Generation: Interconnection standards Opens in new window for customers of Delmarva Power who own on-site generation under one megawatt (MW) and wish to interconnect with the utility electric grid. Delmarva Power submitted its Annual Small Generator Interconnection Report Opens in new window As of December 31, 2013. Delmarva Power submitted their Net Metering Report for the 2013 calendar year Opens in new window as required by 26 Del.
Electric Transmission: PJM Interconnection LLC Opens in new window (PJM) is the regional transmission organization (RTO) responsible for the transmission of electricity in the region that includes all or parts of Delaware , Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia.
The National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC) : NARUC membership is comprised of the governmental agencies engaged in the regulation of utilities and carriers in the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The NARUC website Opens in new window provides information about the issues facing the energy, telecommunications, and water/wastewater industries at the national level.

--- SOURCE: https://depsc.delaware.gov/consumer-information/ ---
Delaware’s Community Solar program allows Delmarva Power customers to receive credit for energy produced by large scale solar projects. This allows more residents access to the benefits of solar energy without the need to install any equipment on their homes. The program is available to all customers of Delmarva Power.
How Does It Work
Customers enroll/subscribe with a project. The project assigns the customer a percentage of the energy generated by the project (this is your subscription). Every month, the customer receives a credit on their Delmarva Power bill based on the subscription. Projects charge the customer a subscription fee (detailed in the enrollment contract). The project will then bill the customer for the subscription fee.
It is important to read your enrollment contract to understand the subscription fee and any other fees that may be charged in conjunction with enrollment. The list of community solar projects that have received permission from the Commission to enroll customers is provided below.
The list of Community Solar projects in Delaware provides the customer service telephone numbers of community solar projects that may be enrolling residential, commercial, or industrial customers. This list is updated as often as information becomes available and is a list of all community solar projects who are eligible to enroll customers. The Commission urges customer to contact all potential projects to determine if a company is currently offering services.
[List of Community Solar Projects]
Please refer to the Frequently Asked Questions for additional information on Delaware’s Community Solar program.
Door to Door Marketing
Community Solar projects may conduct door-to-door marketing to enroll customers. Only projects that have received a Final Certificate to Operate from the Public Service Commission may enroll customers.
Agents may not market door to door unless they have had a criminal background check and have been properly trained in local, state and federal laws governing marketing activities. In addition, agents may not make false, misleading, or deceptive statements.
For door-to-door marketing, the agent shall promptly:
An agent may not request your Delmarva Power account number or ask to see your Delmarva Power bill until they have provided the above information.
FAQs
Who can enroll with a community solar project?
Any customer of Delmarva Power may enroll with a community solar project.
Does the project have to be close to my home/residence?
No. Customers may enroll with any project located within Delmarva Power service territory across the state.
I am a renter- can I still enroll with a community solar project?
Yes. Enrolling with a community solar project does not require installation of equipment, so renters are eligible to enroll.
Can I enroll with more than 1 project?
Yes, customers are eligible to enroll with up to 4 community solar projects. However, in total, customers may not enroll for more than 110% of their expected electrical consumption.
How much money will I save if I enroll?
This will vary for each customer and each project. It is important to read the enrollment contract to understand the fees associated with enrolling. The contract will also provide you with your subscription amount of the energy produced by the project.
The dollar value of your subscription will be calculated by Delmarva Power each month and credited to your Delmarva Power bill. How this credit is calculated varies by Delmarva Power rate classification and can be found in Delmarva Power’s electric tariff.
What if I already have rooftop solar, can I still enroll with a community solar project?
Yes. You can still enroll with a community solar project, as long as the total energy production of the rooftop solar combined with the subscription from the community solar project does not exceed 110% of the expected electrical consumption of the residence/business.
What if I move after enrolling?
Your subscription to a community solar project is portable as long as your new home is in Delmarva Power’s service territory. If you move outside of Delmarva Power’s service territory, then you are eligible to cancel the subscription with no penalty or termination fee.
Will I receive a separate bill for my community solar subscription?
Yes. You will still receive your regular monthly bill from Delmarva Power, which will reflect your credit from the community solar subscription. You will then receive a bill from the community solar project for your subscription cost.
Can I cancel an enrollment?
For any enrollment contract, you have a 3-day recission period where you may cancel the contract without any penalty or fee within 3 days of signing the contract.
After the 3-day recission period, early termination of the contract will be detailed in the enrollment contract. It is important to read the enrollment contract to understand the cancelation terms.

--- SOURCE: https://depsc.delaware.gov/delawares-renewable-portfolio-standard-green-power-products/ ---
Certification as an Eligible Energy Resource
For homeowners, solar installers/developers, or other renewable energy developers with questions regarding how to obtain a Delaware certification as an Eligible Energy Resource and generate solar renewable energy credits (SRECs) or renewable energy credits (RECs), please see the Applications for Eligible Energy Resources section of our website.
Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards Act
For information on Delaware’s Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards, please refer to the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards Act.
Delaware SREC Procurement (SREC Auction)
For customers participating in the Delaware SREC Procurement (SREC Auction), information can be found at www.srecdelaware.com.
DNREC Green Energy Program
Customers of Delmarva Power may be eligible for grants from the Green Energy Program. More information is available on DNREC’s website at https://dnrec.delaware.gov/climate-coastal-energy/renewable/assistance/.
Delaware Sustainable Energy Utility/Energize Delaware
Funding for renewable energy projects may be available from the Delaware Sustainable Energy Utility (SEU). More information is available on their website at https://www.energizedelaware.org/.
RPS Compliance Reports
For RPS compliance reports and Green Power Products compliance reports, please see the RPS and Green Power Product Compliance section of our website.
Renewable Energy Interconnection Facility CPCN
For information on obtaining a Renewable Energy Interconnection Facility CPCN, please refer to Renewable Energy Interconnection Facility CPCN.
Customer Owned Generation: Interconnection standards for customers of Delmarva Power who wish to interconnect on-site generation can be found on the Delmarva Power Green Power team website- https://www.delmarva.com/smart-energy/my-green-power-connection.
Annual Small Generator Interconnection Report
Delmarva Power files an annual small generator interconnection report with the Commission providing the number of interconnection applications processed. The 2024 report is available here- Delmarva 2024 Small Generator Interconnection Report.
Net Metering Report
Delmarva Power files an annual net metering report with the Commission showing the number of net metering customers and estimated output of net metered customers’ systems. The 2024 report is available here- Delmarva Power 2024 Annual Net Energy Metering Summary Report.

--- SOURCE: https://depsc.delaware.gov/renewable-energy-portfolio-standards-act-respa/ ---
Delaware’s Renewable Energy goals are achieved in part through the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards Act, which finds that benefits from renewable energy resources accrue to the public at large and establishes a market for electricity from these resources with the intent to lower the cost to consumers. The PSC complies with the legislation through its Rules and Procedures to Implement the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (26 DE Admin. Code 3008).
In accordance with REPSA,, an industrial customer with peak demand in excess of 1,500 kilowatts may elect to have its load exempt from REPSA. To make this election, the customer must submit a request to the Public Service Commission Staff for review and approval. After receiving an approval letter from Commission Staff, the letter must be provided to the customer’s electric utility. See Section 2.2 of the Rules and Procedures to Implement the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (26 DE Admin. Code 3008).
DNREC has issued regulations related to environmental standards for eligible energy resources: Environmental Standards for Eligible Energy Resources (7 DE Admin. Code 2104)
Please see the Commission’s RPS FAQ for answers to common questions.
Delaware RPS Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
