--- SOURCE: http://www.masssave.com/en/business/incentive-programs/new-construction-renovation ---
Specialty Equipment Incentives
-
Cold Storage & Lab Grade Equipment
Get incentives on ENERGY STAR® certified lab-grade products, such as high-performance refrigerators and freezers.
Learn more -
Commercial Refrigeration
Access instant rebates on the purchase of new, energy-efficient refrigeration equipment, or get incentives to upgrade existing equipment.
Learn more -
Compressed Air Systems
Take advantage of incentives to help upgrade air compressors, nozzles, low-pressure drop filters, zero-loss condensate drains, and more.
Learn more -
Food Service Equipment
Get incentives on energy-efficient kitchen equipment, such as ovens, dishwashers, refrigerators, freezers, ice machines, and more.
Learn more -
Electric Forklifts and Chargers
Get rebates on battery powered electric forklifts and high frequency battery chargers.
Learn more -
Industrial Air Curtains
Save energy by keeping heat inside your facility with air curtains installed above your overhead doors.
Learn more -
Laundry Equipment
Use up to 50 percent less energy and water by upgrading to high-efficiency laundry equipment.
Learn more -
Lawn Equipment
Get incentives for switching to commercial, battery-powered lawn equipment, such as lawnmowers, leaf blowers, chainsaws, and more.
Learn more -
Pumps
Keep things flowing efficiency with rebates on pumping technologies, like ECM circulator pumps and PEI-rated efficient water pumps.
Learn more -
Steam Systems & Solutions
Save energy on the repair and replacement of steam traps, steam leak surveys, and more.
Learn more -
Variable Speed Drives & Motors
Optimize and take control of system and equipment performance with high-efficiency motors and variable speed drives.
Learn more

--- SOURCE: https://www.masssave.com/en/business/rebates-offers-services ---
With comprehensive services and incentives on efficient products and technologies, we have solutions for your energy efficiency projects and greenhouse gas reduction goals. If you’re not sure where to begin or can’t find what you’re looking for start here.
Get a comprehensive review of your building energy use and receive targeted recommendations on the most effective ways to reduce it.
Improve your building and HVAC performance with controls to decrease your operating costs, boost your profitability, and increase your long-term energy savings.
Reduce energy loss and enhance comfort in your building with upgrades like insulation, air sealing, and weatherstripping.
Receive incentives by participating in ConnectedSolutions to reduce energy use during periods of peak electricity demand.
Learn about custom incentives and support for implementing energy-efficiency projects not covered by our standard incentives.
Earn additional incentives to perform targeted upgrades to your building that could substantially reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
Optimize your building's equipment to extend its lifespan, ensure peak performance, and maximize energy savings.
Save energy for your business by improving its existing heating and cooling systems or upgrading to more efficient new ones.
Choose from easy to implement lighting and controls upgrades that help you reduce your energy usage and save your business money.
Get help designing, building, and operating a building that meets your energy and electrification goals while receiving incentives for long-term energy savings.
Browse incentives for energy-efficient specialty equipment including compressed air systems, laundry equipment, commercial kitchen equipment, and more.
Upgrade to higher-efficiency water heating systems to lower energy use, decrease maintenance, and create a more comfortable work environment.
For easy access to incentive applications and tools, visit the Business Quick Tools and Resource page.

--- SOURCE: https://www.masssave.com/en/business/rebates-offers-services/specialty-equipment/cold-storage-and-lab-grade-equipment ---
| Equipment Type | Customer Incentive |
|---|---|
| Lab-Grade High Performance Refrigerators ≥6 and <25 cu.ft. | $600/unit |
| Lab-Grade High Performance Refrigerators ≥25 and <44 cu.ft. | $800/unit |
| Lab-Grade High Performance Refrigerators ≥44 cu.ft. | $1,200/unit |
| Lab-Grade High Performance Freezers ≥6 and <22 cu.ft. | $600/unit |
| Lab-Grade High Performance Freezers ≥22 cu.ft. | $1,200/unit |
| Ultra-Low Temp Freezers >6 cu.ft. | $2,000/unit |
The Sponsors of Mass Save offer rebates on ENERGY STAR® certified cold storage products. For participating commercial customers, this means more affordable, energy-efficient models and savings on operating costs.
- Find a Participating Distributor
Locate participating distributors who can work with you and your contractor to identify the right type of qualifying equipment for your business. - Receive Instant Discount
Confirm your equipment will be installed at a non-residential facility that is serviced by one of the Sponsors of Mass Save and is not already receiving an incentive for this equipment through another program. The rebate will be applied as a discount on your invoice.
If you have questions about how to participate, please contact the Program Implementer:
Energy Solutions
617-440-5466
[email protected]
For projects incorporating other high-efficiency lab grade equipment, demand control lab exhaust, or more, consult your Program Sponsor for a customized solution to savings.
- Must be an existing commercial customer of Cape Light Compact, Eversource, National Grid, or Unitil
- Equipment must be purchased from a participating distributor
- Equipment must be listed on the ENERGY STAR® products list and meet the minimum program requirements
Case Study: Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
This teaching hospital of Harvard Medical School improved safety and optimized the operation of their laboratories with demand control ventilation upgrades.
Not Sure Where To Start?
If you're looking for advice on how to save energy, the Sponsors of Mass Save offer energy assessments and guidance to support efficiency projects from start to finish.
Learn More

--- SOURCE: https://www.masssave.com/en/business/rebates-offers-services/specialty-equipment/commercial-refrigeration ---
Instant Rebates
Instant rebates for the purchase of eligible, high-efficiency commercial refrigeration equipment, including refrigerators, freezers, and high-efficiency condensing units for walk-in coolers.
Learn MoreInstant rebates for the purchase of eligible, high-efficiency commercial refrigeration equipment, including refrigerators, freezers, and high-efficiency condensing units for walk-in coolers.
Learn MoreIncentives to upgrade your existing refrigeration equipment—from refrigerator cases, night covers, defrost controls, novelty coolers, freezer and controller LEDs, vending misers, and more.
Learn MoreParticipate in a virtual or in-person energy assessment with one of our qualified vendors to receive energy-efficient equipment recommendations.
Learn MoreLooking to get rid of older, inefficient refrigerators or freezers? The Sponsors of Mass Save offer small businesses a chance to receive rebates for recycling old refrigerators or freezers up to 30 cubic feet through our recycling program.
LEARN MORE

--- SOURCE: https://www.masssave.com/en/business/rebates-offers-services/specialty-equipment/compressed-air-systems ---
-
Contact Your Program Sponsor
Before starting the project, provide your Program Sponsor with equipment specifications, project costs, and savings to see if project is eligible for an incentive. - Receive Pre-Approval from Your Program Sponsor
Once Sponsor review has occurred and the project is determined eligible, a pre-approval letter will be issued outlining the incentive amount. - Install Pre-Approved Equipment
Once your project has been pre-approved, purchase and install the qualifying equipment within 12 months. - After Installation Is Completed
Once the installation is completed, notify your Program Sponsor and provide final documentation of installation, including invoice and final specifications. Once information is verified, incentive payment will be issued.
Reduce one of the least efficient and most expensive energy sources in the industry—compressed air.
The Sponsors of Mass Save offer incentives on air compressors, nozzles, low-pressure drop filters, zero-loss condensate drains, and more.
Your business can also receive customized support to improve the efficiency of existing compressed air systems, with leak repair, piping upgrades, enhanced controls, heat recovery, and more.
For a full list of eligibility requirements, please reference the rebate form.
- Must be an existing customer of Cape Light Compact, Eversource, National Grid, or Unitil
- Only new oil-flooded rotary screw compressors for single compressor systems are eligible for prescriptive incentives
- Custom measures may be available for scroll, reciprocating, and oil-free compressors
- Only compressors with nameplate horsepower (HP) equal to or greater than 15 HP and less than or equal to 100 HP are eligible for prescriptive incentives. For compressors with capacity rated in kW, rating shall be converted to HP for compliance check [= (kW) / (.746kW/HP)]
- Proposed compressor must have Load/No Load, Variable Frequency Drive, or Variable Displacement capacity control
- Prescriptive incentives are only applicable to compressors that operate at 145 PSI (pounds per square inch) or below
- Primary storage is required on all projects
- Compressors must run a minimum of 2,000 hours a year. To calculate run hours, include only the hours that the end uses supplied by the compressor are operational (not the operating hours of the facility)
- Compressors with Variable Frequency Drives must have as a minimum a 3% impedance series reactor in its AC power input connection
Case Study: Sekisui Voltek, LLC
Find out how this leading manufacturer of cross-linked polyolefin foam saved $33,808 annually by installing a high-efficiency air compressor using a variable speed drive motor and cycling dryer.
Case Study: South Shore Millwork, Inc.
With efficient motors, lighting and controls, energy-efficient air compressor upgrades, and more, this architectural woodwork producer saved $30,491 annually.
Not Sure Where To Start?
If you’re looking for advice on how to save energy, the Sponsors of Mass Save offer energy assessments and guidance to support efficiency projects from start to finish.
Learn More
