--- SOURCE: http://www.newbernnc.gov/departments/utilities/electric/energy_rebate_program.php ---
Rebate credits can be given for replacement units on existing homes.
A rebate credit of $100 per ton per unit for a maximum of $400 is offered per central heat pump with heat strips (minimum 15.2 SEER2 rating and at least one ton) for replacement units.
Also offered is a $150 rebate credit per high efficiency (minimum 0.93 efficiency factor and at least 30 gallons) and electric water heater.
In order to participate, a customer must complete the Residential Rebate Credit Application.
An online copy of the Residential Rebate Credit Application .
PDF version: Residential Rebate Credit Application.
Forms are also available at the Customer Service Office at 606 Fort Totten Drive.
Return the application to the Customer Service Office or mail to:
City of New Bern
P. O. Box 1129
New Bern, NC 28563-1129
Attn: Utility Analyst
To qualify for the rebate credit the following is required:
- For heat pump with heat strips--a minimum 15.2 SEER2 rating and at least one ton (documentation of same is required to be submitted with the application).
- For electric water heater--a minimum 0.93 energy factor and at least 30 gallons in size (documentation of same is required to be submitted with the application).
- A copy of the bill of sale/receipt with the model, serial number, and date and address of installation.
- Load management switches must be installed or reconnected on the appliance for which the rebate credit is requested. An online explanation of Load Management is provided.
If a request to remove the load management switches is made within two years of the date that the rebate credit is issued, the full amount of the rebate credit will be charged back to the customer's electric account.
After two years but within four years, half of the rebate will be charged back.
After four years none of the rebate credit will be charged back.
Once approved, the rebate credit will be applied to the customer's electric account. Landlords will have credit issued to their electric account or a rebate check issued. Please allow approximately 8 weeks for rebate to be credited to your account.
