--- SOURCE: http://www.nli.coop/rebates/ ---
Conservation Rebates
Northern Lights offers rebates to NLI members only, in partnership with the Bonneville Power Administration. Restrictions may apply. Rebates are subject to change.
Current Rebates Brochure (PDF)
Smart Thermostat Rebate:
Looking to save energy and reduce your electric bill? When installed and programmed correctly, smart thermostats can help lower energy use and cut down on electric demand! 🏡💡
If you have an electric furnace or heat pump system, Northern Lights is offering a $140 rebate for installing a qualified smart thermostat. It’s an easy way to boost energy efficiency and put money back in your pocket!
Smart Thermostat Rebate Form (PDF Version)
Washer and Dryer Rebate Forms:
Did you know energy efficient washer and dryers use 20% less energy than standard machines? Get your energy efficient washer and dryer today!
Clothes Washer Qualifications and Rebate Form (PDF Version)
Clothes Dryer Qualifications and Rebate Form (PDF Version)
Although we will make every attempt to process your rebate quickly, please allow 6–8 weeks to receive your check. Rebates are not applied as credits to energy bills.
Heat Pump Installation and Rebates:
Air-Source Heat Pump Conversion Rebate:
For electrically heated existing site-built and manufactured homes converting from electric forced-air or electric zonal heat to a qualifying air-source heat pump. Equipment must be AHRI-rated and meet BPA efficiency standards, and installation must be completed by a licensed and bonded contractor. Complete the form and submit it with required documentation to energysupport@evergreen.energy.
Air Source Heat Pump Conversion Project Information Form (PDF Version)
Air-Source Heat Pump Upgrade Rebate (Variable-Speed):
For new single-family homes, existing single-family homes, and existing manufactured homes upgrading to a qualifying variable-speed air-source heat pump. The heat pump must be AHRI-rated, meet BPA efficiency standards, and use a variable-speed or inverter-driven outdoor compressor. Installation must be completed by a licensed and bonded contractor. Complete the form and submit it with required documentation to energysupport@evergreen.energy.
Air Source Heat Pump Upgrade Project Information Form (PDF Version)
Ductless (Mini-Split) Heat Pump Rebate:
For new single-family homes, existing single-family homes, and existing manufactured homes upgrading to a qualifying variable-speed air-source heat pump. The heat pump must be AHRI-rated, meet BPA efficiency standards, and use a variable-speed or inverter-driven outdoor compressor. Installation must be completed by a licensed and bonded contractor. Complete the form and submit it with required documentation to energysupport@evergreen.energy.
Ductless Heat Pump (DHP) Project Information Form (PDF Version)
NEEM Manufactured Home Rebate:
For NEEM-certified manufactured homes that meet NLI’s energy efficiency requirements. Applicants must provide the Energy Star® Certificate of Compliance and a dated receipt or invoice, along with basic home and heating system information (new or replacement, primary heating source, and total installed cost). Complete the form and submit it with required documentation to energysupport@evergreen.energy.
NEEM Home Rebate Application Project Information Form (PDF Version)

--- SOURCE: https://www.nli.coop/programs-and-services/ ---
Programs and Services
This section contains applications, links to NLI policies, construction standards, and other helpful information to help members transfer service, upgrade an existing service, or apply to have a new service constructed.
We understand the process can be overwhelming at times and we are just a phone call or email away. Contact us with any questions you might have.

--- SOURCE: https://www.nli.coop/programs-and-services/start-service/ ---
Start Service
Let’s get started. All you need to activate your electric service is to be a Northern Lights Electric Cooperative Member.
Use this form to apply for co-op membership and initiate electrical service. Please provide as much information as possible.
This form will be forwarded to an NLI Member Services Specialist who will process it and follow up with you within the next business day to complete your request.

--- SOURCE: https://www.nli.coop/programs-and-services/transfer/ ---
Transfer an Existing Service
Use this form to initiate a transfer of existing electrical service. Please provide as much information as possible.
This form will be forwarded to an NLI Member Services Specialist who will process it and follow up with you within the next business day to complete your request.

--- SOURCE: https://www.nli.coop/programs-and-services/stop-service/ ---
Stop Service
Use this form to end existing electrical service. Please provide as much information as possible.
This form will be forwarded to an NLI Member Services Specialist who will process it and follow up with you within the next business day to complete your request.
