--- SOURCE: http://www.pennaeps.com/ ---
About the AEPS Act
The Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004 (AEPS) requires electric distribution companies (EDC) and electric generation suppliers (EGS) include a specific percentage of electricity from alternative energy resources in the generation that they sell to Pennsylvania customers. EDCs and EGSs meet this requirement by utilizing alternative energy Credits (AECs) generated by qualified alternative energy sources to demonstrate compliance with the AEPS Act. The PennAEPS website facilitates the registration and certification of alternative energy facilities.

--- SOURCE: https://pennaeps.com/solar-registration-instructions/ ---
Step 1
Create an Account by clicking on “register” in the top right corner of our homepage. If you are a homeowner who would like to certify your residential solar facility, your role will be “generator”. If you are an installer or aggregator that will be managing multiple facilities, please give us a call at 877-333-0573 or email us at [email protected] to clarify what your role will be.
Step 2
Log in to PennAEPS using the account information created in Step 1. Once logged in, click on “new application” to begin registering your facility.
Step 3
Provide the installation address and property owner/host for the solar facility. This information should match the name on the interconnection approval and can be different from the system owner. If this information is different from the owner of the system, this system is considered a lease/PPA for our application process.
Step 4
Step 5
Provide all the system details. Each unique combination of azimuth and tilt represents a new array. If all panels/modules have the same power rating, azimuth, and tilt, then you only need details for one array. Input the inverter information by indicating the number of inverters and inverter size(s) in watts. The “Derate Factor” can be left blank to use our default value of 0.14 or you can enter your own.
Step 6
Enter the facility owner information and the aggregator information (if necessary). For facility owners who have contracted with an aggregator, choose their name from the drop-down menu. If the owner information does not match the property owner information provided earlier in the application for the installation address, please be sure to indicate that this facility is a lease/PPA under “project details”.
Step 7
Upload all the supporting documents necessary for the application. All applications require a system photo and utility signed certificate of completion. PJM interconnected projects should include their commercial operation date letter. A signed Schedule A is also required if the system has an aggregator and a signed ROA is required if the facility is leased/PPA. A meter/inverter photo or online monitoring screenshot showing the current lifetime generation of the facility is required if the application is submitted more than 30 days from the date the certificate of completion is signed by the utility. The generation shown in this photo should match the “Current Meter Reading” field. Carefully read the attestation at the bottom of the page and attest to the statements. Click the “Save and Submit” button.
Utility scale solar projects should include a site plan or an as-built diagram. Drone or aerial photos if allowed by local regulations are preferred.
Step 8
The application has now been successfully completed. A confirmation email will be provided confirming that the application has been submitted. The Program Administrator reviews all applications within 30 days, and the status of the application can be checked anytime on the application dashboard. Once the application has been reviewed by the Program Administrator, you will receive an email requesting additional information or receive an email with the state certification number that you or your aggregator will provide to PJM-GATS to establish an account for entering meter readings and transacting credits.

--- SOURCE: https://pennaeps.com/solar-faqs/ ---
The following guidance is subject to change as the PUC finalizes any rulemaking orders.
If you have questions that are not specific to solar facilities, please refer to the Frequently Asked Questions.
If you are unable to find the response to your question, please contact the Program Administrator.
To be eligible to participate in the PA AEPS program, a Solar PV system may be any size and must be interconnected to a utility in the PJM regional transmission organization (RTO).
Only PA-sited solar facilities are eligible to earn SAECs.
Systems outside of Pennsylvania that are within the PJM interconnection territory may qualify for Tier I AECs if they derive energy from the following: solar photovoltaic and solar thermal energy, wind power, low-impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, or coal mine methane.
A system may qualify for Tier II AECs if it is located in Pennsylvania and derives energy from the following: waste coal, distributed generation systems, demand-side management, large-scale hydropower, or municipal solid waste
Eligible facilities located in the PJM footprint can qualify for PA AEPS Tier I certification. Facilities may be certified in multiple state RPS programs, but credits can only be retired to one RPS program and registered in one tracking registry. For example, a facility cannot be registered in both MRETS and PJM-GATS.
An application may be submitted once the interconnection utility grants final approval to operate as indicated by an official approval notice, the system is placed online, and solar-dedicated production is recorded.
If an application is submitted more than 30 days after utility interconnection approval is issued, the application must include a meter photo (if a revenue grade kWh meter is installed) or inverter photo(s) capturing the total kWh as of the time when the application is submitted.
Generation begins the date a fully completed application is submitted to the PA AEPS Program or the date of interconnection approval, whichever is later. Any generation prior to the later of the two dates is not eligible to earn credits.
For all new systems, photos showing all modules within each array listed are required. The photo(s) must be clear enough to allow counting of each individual module. An Interconnection Approval Agreement, Certificate of Completion (CoC), or Permission to Operate (PTO) document is required for all systems. This will contain the date that the utility granted final approval to operate the system.
If an application is submitted more than 30 days after utility interconnection approval is issued, a meter photo is required. This may be taken from a solar-dedicated meter itself showing the reading or from an online monitoring portal, if applicable. Photos from bi-directional meters are not allowed for verification purposes as they reflect the combined production and consumption of a system.
If you have selected an aggregator to manage your system, either a Recognition of Assignment (ROA) or a Schedule A is required. An ROA is required for leased/PPA systems while a Schedule A is required for non-leased/PPA aggregated systems. Please thoroughly review the document and ensure that all required signatures are present.
If your system contains a battery, a site-specific electrical diagram showing the location of the battery is required.
For facilities > 250 kW DC, a site plan showing the layout of all installed modules is required.
If your system received utility interconnection approval on or later than May 18, 2017 and has a solar-dedicated revenue-grade meter (RGM), please use the total kWh produced, entered as a whole number, to report your production.
If you do not have a solar-dedicated RGM, it is likely that your meter is incorporated into your inverter and is accessed by the display on the device or through an online monitoring portal.
A bi-directional utility meter may not be used to report production as this records the combined production and consumption. If your system received utility interconnection approval on or before May 17, 2017, is less than 15 kW DC, and does not have a solar-dedicated revenue grade meter for recording kWh production, the facility may earn Solar AECs based on PV Watts estimates.
If this is an expansion or second system at the same address, please check that you have selected “Yes” for “Aspect of an Existing Facility.”
If you are the homeowner and this is the first system being submitted for registration at this installation address, confirm if you have selected an aggregator to manage your AECs as they may submit the application on your behalf.
If you are an aggregator, please contact the PA AEPS Program Administrators at [email protected].
A new application must be submitted for the addition as an “aspect of an existing facility.” This is available in Step 1 of the application.
If the new system is metered with the original system, please provide information for only the additional equipment installed. This includes the additional array(s) details such as the number of modules, orientation, and module power rating as well as additional (not preexisting) inverter(s) installed. You will also need to provide the existing PA Certification Number and a new Certificate of Completion/Permission to Operate issued by the utility if there are changes to the AC size.
If the new system is separately metered, please provide proof that production is recorded and monitored separately (a screenshot of the monitoring portal or photo(s) of the solar dedicated meters will suffice). Separately metered applications will require all new supporting documentation. Please include “(second system)” or “(addition)” in the installation Apartment or Suite address line to avoid a duplicate address error.
No. When adding a new system, alternative energy generators must apply for the second facility within the same account. Please note that this is not considered an “aspect” of an existing system, but rather a new facility with a new certification number.
AECs are expected to remain with the home. Any arrangement made between the buyer and the seller will be at the risk of both parties. In order to update AEC ownership, both parties must complete and sign the PJM-GATS system change form and submit it to the Administrator via email to [email protected]. All information on the closing documents may be redacted except for the buyers’ and sellers’ names and signatures and the closing date. The deed/settlement statement is no longer required.
Please email [email protected] the facility address, owner’s name, date of decommission, and the reason for decertification.

--- SOURCE: https://pennaeps.com/category/program-updates/ ---
Energy Year 2026 Q1 Quarterly Adjustment Posted
The EY 2026 Q1 Quarterly Adjustment to the Tier I AEC credit requirement has been published and can be found at the Electricity Suppliers portion of the PennAEPS website. The Q1 Adjustment for Energy Year 2026 is: Quarter Tier 1 Quarterly Adjustment Tier 1 With Quarterly Adjustment 1 0.325144% 7.825144%

--- SOURCE: https://pennaeps.com/author/program-admin/ ---
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PUBLISHED
The 2020 Annual Report has been published and released by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. A copy of the 2020 report can be found here and historical reports can be found here.
The 2020 Annual Report has been published and released by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. A copy of the 2020 report can be found here and historical reports can be found here.
The Q2 Quarterly Adjustment to the Tier I AEC credit requirement has been published and can be found at the Electricity Suppliers portion of the PennAEPS website. The Quarterly Adjustments for Energy Year 2021 are: Quarter Tier I Quarterly Adjustment Tier I with Quarterly Adjustment Q1 2021 0.287397% 7.787397% Q2 2021 0.348938% 7.848938%
On January 14, 2021, The Pennsylvania PUC approved a Tentative Implementation Order (TIO) to the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act 114 of 2020 (Docket No.: M-2020-3023323). A copy of the Order can be found here. Section 14 of Act 114 of 2020 discusses changes to the eligibility of non-PA sited Tier II facilities and
The Q1 Quarterly Adjustment to the Tier I AEC credit requirement has been published and can be found at the Electricity Suppliers portion of the PennAEPS website. The Quarterly Adjustments for Energy Year 2021 are: Q1: 0.287397%
PA PUC staff have requested that PJM-GATS continue to mint Tier II credits for out-of-state facilities but without having these credits identified as being eligible for use towards Tier II of PA’s AEPS. This action is needed at least throughout the interim period while the Commission establishes procedures to consider any out-of-state credits that may
Governor Wolf signed HB 2536 into law as Act No. 114 of 2020 on November 23, 2020, that, among other things, modifies the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act. Details on how the Act is to be implemented will be determined by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. In general, the steps toward implementation will include: a
The 2019 Annual Report has been published and released by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. A copy of the 2019 report can be found here and historical reports can be found here.
2019/2020 Alternative Energy Credit Pricing AEC Type Weighted Average Price Price Range ACP Solar PV $37.00 $3.40-$350.00 $74.00 Tier I $7.87 $2.50 – $250.00 $45.00 Tier II $1.92 $0.01 – $6.25 $45.00 Historical Alternative Energy Credit Pricing can be found here.
The EY 2020 Act 129 Adjustment to the Tier I AEC credit requirement has been published and can be found at the Electricity Suppliers portion of the PennAEPS website. Quarterly Adjustments and the Final Adjustment for Energy Year 2020 are as follows: Annual: 0.356665%Q4: 0.533538%Q3: 0.439015% Q2: 0.237420% Q1: 0.240444%
The Q3 Quarterly Adjustment to the Tier I AEC requirement has been published and can be found at the Electricity Suppliers portion of the PennAEPS website. The Quarterly Adjustments for Energy Year 2020 are: Q1: 0.240444%Q2: 0.237420% Q3: 0.439015%
