--- SOURCE: http://www.powertochoose.org ---
Welcome to Power to Choose, the official and unbiased electric choice website of the Public Utility Commission of Texas. This website is available to all electric providers to list their offers for free. Compare offers and choose the electric plan that’s right for you.
Users Guide

--- SOURCE: http://www.powertochoose.org/en-us/Content/Resource/Selling-Renewable-Power ---
Buying Renewable Power
As the population of Texas grows, the demand for electricity also grows. Texas currently produces and consumes more electricity than any other state. Because of its size, diverse climate, and abundance of natural resources, Texas has tremendous potential to generate renewable resources that greatly enhance the diversity of our electric grid. The two main advantages to using renewable energy are that it’s clean and it’s unlimited, which reduces the demand for non-renewable sources of energy, such as coal, oil, and natural gas.
Several Texas utilities now offer power produced from renewable sources. It generally costs more than power generated from fossil fuel burning plants, but a growing number of consumers are electing to pay a premium for environmentally friendly power. An alternative is to buy “green” power, which includes electricity generated from relatively clean natural gas-burning plants that burn gas produced in Texas. Either way, choosing one of these types of plans can contribute to a cleaner Texas.
When you choose to buy renewable energy, you are telling your electric company that you want a certain percentage of your power to come from renewable resources. That percentage of renewable power is then produced and placed onto the power grid. The actual electricity that finds its way to your home or business represents the mix of all generators connected to the grid, but by choosing renewable power you help increase the amount of renewable energy produced statewide.
Selling Excess Renewable Power
Some people choose to install power-generating sources, such as solar panels or wind turbines. This is called Distributed Renewable Generation, or a DRG system. There may be times when these customers produce more power than they can use. This excess power may be sold to an electric company. Selling this excess power works in different ways, depending on where you live.
Areas with Retail Electric Competition
If you live in an area of Texas with retail electric competition, you may be able to sell the excess power that you produce. You must sell to the company from whom you buy your electricity; however, your company is not required to purchase this power. Some companies that do purchase excess DRG power may require that the customer also subscribe to a specific retail offer. Other companies may allow the purchase and sales offers to be chosen independently by the customer.
Retail electric customers who wish to install a DRG system must sign an interconnection agreement with their local electric Transmission and Distribution Utility.
Areas without Retail Electric Competition
Most areas of Texas without electric competition are served by municipal utilities or electric cooperatives. Customers in these regions should contact their utility or cooperative directly with questions about the sale of DRG power. Before installing a DRG system, you should get an interconnection agreement from your utility that describes the terms.
For customers in areas without retail electric competition who are not served by a municipal utility or cooperative, PUC rules require the utility to purchase the DRG power put into the grid at a rate equal to its " avoided cost," which is the price the utility would have paid for an equivalent amount of conventionally generated electricity.
Applicable Rules
Interconnection AgreementInterconnection Technical Requirements
Metering for Distributed Generation
Distributed Renewable Generation
Arrangements Between Qualifying Facilities and Electric Utilities
Incentives for DRG and Energy Efficiency Measures
The federal government offers tax incentives for energy efficiency and renewable energy. Texas residents can also check with their local utility providers, as some have energy efficiency programs that offer low-cost loans or rebates and advice on renewable energy technologies. Texas provides tax incentives for some businesses. For example, businesses that use, manufacture, or install solar or wind energy can receive franchise tax deductions and/or exemptions. A property tax exemption is available for businesses that install or construct a system using solar, wind, biomass, or anaerobic digestion.

--- SOURCE: http://www.powertochoose.org/es-es/Content/Resource/Selling-Renewable-Power ---
Venta de Energía Renovable
Según crece la población de Texas, también crece la demanda de electricidad. Actualmente, Texas produce y consume más electricidad que ningún otro estado. Debido a su tamaño, clima diverso y nuestra abundancia de recursos naturales, Texas tiene un potencial enorme de generar recursos de energía renovable que mejoren en gran medida la diversidad de nuestra red eléctrica. Las dos ventajas principales de usar energía renovable son que es limpia y es ilimitada, lo que reduce la demanda de recursos de energía no renovables, tales como el carbón, el petróleo y el gas natural.
Varias compañías de servicios públicos de Texas ofrecen ahora energía producida de fuentes renovables. Generalmente cuesta más que la energía generada de las plantas de quema de combustible de fósiles, pero una cantidad creciente de clientes están escogiendo pagar una prima para recibir energía que no afecte al medioambiente. Una alternativa es comprar energía “verde”, que puede incluir electricidad generada de plantas de gas natural relativamente limpias que queman gas producido en Texas. De todas formas, escoger uno de estos tipos de planes puede contribuir a que Texas sea más limpia.
Cuando usted escoge comprar energía renovable, le está diciendo a su compañía de servicio eléctrico que desea que cierto porcentaje de su servicio eléctrico provenga de fuentes renovables. Ese porcentaje de energía renovable se produce entonces y se coloca en el suministro de energía de su compañía de servicio eléctrico. La electricidad que en realidad llega a su casa o negocio representa la mezcla de todos los generadores conectados a la red, pero al escoger energía renovable ayuda a aumentar la cantidad de energía renovable que se usa en todo el estado.
Venta del exceso de energía renovable
Algunas personas escogen instalar fuentes que generan energía, tales como paneles solares o turbinas de viento. Esto se llama Generación Renovable Distribuida (DRG, por sus siglas en inglés). Hay veces en las que estos clientes producen más energía de la que consumen. Este exceso de energía se le puede vender a una compañía de servicio eléctrico si el cliente tiene un acuerdo de interconexión con una compañía de servicio público. Vender este exceso de energía funciona de distintas maneras dependiendo de donde usted viva.
Áreas de competencia entre compañías de servicio eléctrico minoristas
Si usted vive en un área de Texas que tenga competencia entre compañías de servicio eléctrico minoristas, quizás pueda vender el exceso de energía que usted produce. Usted debe venderle a la compañía a la cual le compra la electricidad, pero su compañía no está obligada a comprar esta energía. Algunas compañías que compran el exceso de energía de DRG pueden exigir que el cliente se suscriba a alguna oferta específica al por menor. Los clientes de energía al por menor pueden permitir que el cliente escoja las ofertas de compra y venta independientemente.
Los clientes de servicio eléctrico al por menor que deseen instalar el DRG deben firmar un acuerdo de interconexión con su compañía de servicio eléctrico local de transmisión y distribución.
Áreas sin competencia entre compañías de servicio eléctrico minoristas
La mayoría de las áreas de Texas sin competencia de servicio eléctrico reciben servicio de las compañías de servicios públicos municipales o de cooperativas eléctricas. Los clientes en estas regiones deben contactar a su compañía de servicio público o cooperativa directamente si tienen preguntas sobre la venta de energía DRG. Antes de hacer una instalación de DRG, debe obtener un acuerdo de interconexión de su compañía de servicio de electricidad que describa los términos.
Para los clientes que no reciben servicio de una compañía de servicios públicos municipal o cooperativa, las reglas de la PUC requiere que la compañía de servicio eléctrico compre la energía DRG que se coloque en la red a una tarifa equivalente a su “costo evitado”, según se define en §25.242(c)(1).
Normas aplicables
Acuerdo de interconexiónRequisitos técnicos de la interconexión
Metros para Generación distribuida
Generación renovable distribuida
Arreglos entre las instalaciones calificadas y las compañías de servicio de electricidad
Incentivos para la DRG y medidas de eficiencia energética
El gobierno federal ofrece incentivos de reducción de impuestos por eficiencia energética y energía renovable. Los residentes de Texas también pueden verificar con sus proveedores de servicio eléctrico locales, pues algunos tienen programas de eficiencia energética que ofrecen préstamos a bajo costo/reembolsos y consejos sobre las tecnologías de energía renovable. Texas ofrece incentivos de reducción de impuestos para algunos negocios. Por ejemplo, los negocios que usan, fabrican o instalan dispositivos de energía solar o de viento pueden recibir una reducción o exención de sus impuestos de franquicia. También existe una exención de impuestos sobre la propiedad para el consumo de energía solar, de viento, biomasa y anaeróbica para los comercios que instalen o construyan ese tipo de sistema.
- Base de datos de incentivos estatales para renovables y eficiencia
- Oficina Estatal de Conservación de Energía de Texas
Créditos de energía renovable (REC, por sus siglas en inglés)
La legislatura de Texas aprobó un “Estándar de portfolio de energía renovable” que exige que las compañías de servicio eléctrico y los proveedores de electricidad minoristas (REP) generen y vendan niveles objetivo específicos de energía renovable con el tiempo, con un objetivo de 10,000 MW en capacidad de energía renovable para el 2025. Con cada hora megavatio de energía renovable generada se produce un “crédito de energía renovable” (REC). Las compañías de servicio de electricidad y las compañías que ofrecen servicios de electricidad al por menor tienen la obligación de cumplir con ciertos objetivos de generación de energía renovable o de comprar REC, los cuales se compran y venden abiertamente en el mercado de bienes de consumo. Además, los negocios y las personas pueden comprar REC voluntariamente para compensar sus huellas de carbono y para apoyar la creación de fuentes de energía limpia. Ademá, si le interesa comprar o vender REC en Texas, por favor vea la siguiente lista de vendedores de REC para ver sus precios, términos y condiciones.

--- SOURCE: http://www.powertochoose.org/en-us/Plan/Offers ---
There are no companies in your zip code that purchase excess renewable energy, or you maybe in an area of Texas without electric competition. Contact your electric company, municipal utility or electric cooperative directly if you have questions about the sale of distributed renewable generation.
Available Purchase Offers
Enter your zip code below to find electric companies who will
purchase your excess renewable energy.
Enter your zipCode
COMPANY
PRODUCT DESCRIPTION
If you do not see your electric company listed, please contact them directly if
you have questions about the sale of distributed renewable generation.

--- SOURCE (PDF): http://www.powertochoose.org/Content/Files/PDF/25.217.pdf ---
CHAPTER 25. SUBSTANTIVE RULES APPLICABLE TO ELEC TRIC SERVICE 
PROVIDERS. 
 
Subchapter I. TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION. 
 
DIVISION 2.   TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION APPL ICABLE TO ALL 
ELECTRIC UTILITIES.
 
 
 
 §25.217--1 effective date 6/11/12
  (P 39797) 
§25.217.  Distributed Renewable Generation. 
 
(a) Application. This section applies to owners of distributed renewable generation, retail electric  
providers (REPs), the program administrator for the renewable energy credits trading program  
pursuant to §25.173 of this title (relating to Goal for Renewable Energy), and electric utilities,  
including transmission and distribution utilities (TDUs), but excludes river authorities that are electric 
utilities. 
 
(b) Definitions. The following terms when used in this section have the following  meanings, 
unless the context indicates otherwise: 
(1) Distributed renewable generation (DRG)  -- Electric generation equipment with a capacity  
of not more than 2,000 kilowatts provided by a renewable energy technology, as defined by  
Public Utility Regulatory Act §39.904(d), installed on a retail electric customer’s side of the  
meter. 
(2) Distributed renewable generation owner (DRGO) -- A person who owns DRG; a retail 
electric customer on whose side of the meter DRG is installed and operated, regardless of 
whether the customer takes ownership of the distributed renewable generation;  or a person 
who by contract is assigned ownership rights  to energy produced from DRG located at the 
premises of the customer on the customer’s side of the meter. 
(3)  Independent school district solar generation (ISD -SG) -- Solar electric generation  
equipment installed on the customer’s side of the meter at a b uilding or other facility owned  
or operated by an independent school district, irrespective of the level of generation capacity.  
(4)  Independent school district solar generation owner (ISD -SG Owner)  -- A person who  
owns ISD-SG. 
(5)  Interconnection -- The physical connection of DRG or ISD -SG to an electric utility  
distribution system in accordance with this section and §25.211 of this title (relating to  
Interconnection of On -Site Distributed Generation (DG)), §25.212 of this title (relating to  
Technical Requirements for Interconnection and Parallel Operation of On -Site Distributed  
Generation), and §25.213 of this title (relating to Metering for Distributed Renewable  
Generation). 
(6)  Out-flow -- Energy produced by DRG or ISD -SG and delivered to an electric utility  
distribution system. 
 
(c) Interconnection. 
(1) An electric utility shall permit interconnection of DRG or ISD-SG if: 
(A) the DRGO provides credible tangible proof that the DRG to be interconnected has  
or had an original manufacturer’s warranty agai nst breakdown or undue degradation 
for at least five years; 
(B) the rated capacity of the DRG or ISD -SG does not exceed the electric utility’s  
service capacity; and 
(C) the DRG or ISD -SG is in compliance with applicable requirements of §25.211 and  
§25.212 of this title. 
(2) An electric utility may disconnect a DRG or ISD-SG pursuant to §25.211(e) of this title. 
(3) An electric utility shall not require a DRGO or ISD -SG Owner whose generation capacity is  
not more than 2,000 kilowatts and whose DRG or ISD-SG meets the standards established by 
this section to purchase an amount, type, or classification of liability insurance the DRGO or  
ISD-SG Owner would not have in the absence of the DRG or ISD-SG. 
CHAPTER 25. SUBSTANTIVE RULES APPLICABLE TO ELEC TRIC SERVICE 
PROVIDERS. 
 
Subchapter I. TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION. 
 
DIVISION 2.   TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION APPL ICABLE TO ALL 
ELECTRIC UTILITIES.
 
 
 
 §25.217--2 effective date 6/11/12
  (P 39797) 
(4) An existing or prospective DRGO or ISD -SG Owner may reque st interconnection by  
submitting an application for interconnection with the electric utility. The application shall  
be on a form approved by the commission and processed by the electric utility in accordance  
with §25.211 and §25.212 of this title. 
(5) Metering is addressed by §25.213 of this title and, for certain qualifying facilities, by  
§25.242(h)(4) of this title (relating to Arrangements Between Qualifying Facilities and  
Electric Utilities). 
 
(d) Renewable Energy Credits (RECs). A DRGO or ISD-SG is subject to the certification requirements  
in §25.173 of this title to be eligible to receive RECs. Any RECs or compliance premiums resulting  
from the operation of DRG or ISD-SG are the property of the DRGO or ISD -SG Owner unless sold or 
otherwise transferred by the DRGO or ISD- SG Owner. The REC program administrator shall award  
the RECs or compliance premiums to the DRGO or ISD -SG Owner pursuant to §25.173 of this title.   
The purchase of out -flows does not automatically confer any rights of REC ownership on the 
purchaser. 
 
(e) Sale of out-flows by an ISD-SG Owner. 
(1) In areas of the state in which customer choice has not been introduced, the electric utility  
serving the load of an ISD -SG Owner shall buy all ISD -SG out-flows at a value consistent  
with §25.242 of this title. 
(2) In areas in which customer choice has been introduced, ISD -SG Owners who choose to sell  
out-flows shall sell out- flows to the REP that serves the premises at which the ISD -SG is  
located, at a value to which both parties agree. 
(3) If a REP’s service to an ISD -SG Owner is terminated, any outstanding amounts due to the  
ISD-SG Owner may be used to offset outstanding bill amounts but in all cases shall be  
remitted by the REP no later than 30 days after the REP receives the usage data and any 
related invoices for non-bypassable charges. 
 
(f) Sale of out-flows by a DRGO. 
(1) In areas in which customer choice has not been introduced, the electric utility serving the 
DRGO’s load shall buy all DRG out -flows at a value consistent with the requir ements of  
§25.242 of this title. 
(2) In areas in which customer choice has been introduced, DRGOs who choose to sell out -flows 
shall sell their out-flows to the REP that serves the premises at which the DRG is located at a  
value to which both parties agree. 
(3) If a REP’s service to a DRGO is terminated, any outstanding amounts due to the DRGO may  
be used to offset outstanding bill amounts but in all cases shall be remitted by the REP no  
later than 30 days after the REP receives the usage data and any relat ed invoices for 
nonbypassable charges. 
 
(g) Transition provision.  Electric utilities and REPs shall make reasonable efforts to inform existing 
and potential DRGOs and ISD-SG Owners of their rights and obligations pursuant to this chapter, and 
shall change existing metering and purchase arrangements to conform to this section. However, a 
metering or purchase arrangement that is required by a contract that exists on the effective date of this 
section shall be changed to conform to this section effective the date the contract expires. The 
expiration date of such a contract may be extended by the DRGO or ISD- SG Owner if the existing 
terms of the contract give the DRGO or ISD- SG Owner the unilateral right to extend the  expiration 
CHAPTER 25. SUBSTANTIVE RULES APPLICABLE TO ELEC TRIC SERVICE 
PROVIDERS. 
 
Subchapter I. TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION. 
 
DIVISION 2.   TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION APPL ICABLE TO ALL 
ELECTRIC UTILITIES.
 
 
 
 §25.217--3 effective date 6/11/12
  (P 39797) 
date. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, a roll -back meter must be 
replaced no later than the date customer choice is offered in the area in which the roll-back meter is 
located. 
 
(h) Authority to act on behalf of a customer . If any person purports to act on behalf of the retail  
customer pursuant to this section or §§25.211, 25.212 or 25.213 of this title, such person must  
demonstrate contractual authority to do so by letter of agency or otherwise. 
 
(i) Exemptions.  Neither a retail electric customer that uses distributed renewable generation nor the 
owner of the distributed renewable generation that the retail electric customer uses is an electric utility, 
power generation company, or retail electric provider for the purposes of this chapter and is not 
required to register with or be certified by the commission if at the time distributed renewable 
generation is installed, the estimated annual amount of electricity to be produced by the distributed 
renewable generation is less than or equal to the retail electric customer’s estimated annual electricity 
consumption.
 
