--- SOURCE: http://energy.hawaii.gov/energy-efficiency-in-soh ---
LEad By Example – State agencies
Our state energy policy is rooted in one principle: a commitment to maximize the deployment of cost-effective investments in clean energy production and management for the purpose of promoting Hawai‘i’s energy security.
STATE OF Hawai‘i ENERGY POLICY DIRECTIVES
Implementing energy efficiency in state agencies enables the State to lead by example in energy efficiency initiatives and energy-efficient design for new construction, thereby maximizing the savings of taxpayer dollars that would otherwise be spent on utility bills. Under Act 239, SLH 2022, passed by the legislature, “efforts taken by universities, public schools, executive departments, and other government entities have already begun to save taxpayers money by reducing the government’s electricity costs.” Pursuant to HRS §196-31, state facilities are required to implement cost-effective energy measures by targeted dates. The Hawai‘i State Energy Office has the responsibility to encourage and assist state agencies, collect all utility bills and energy usage data, and make this information available in a publicly accessible format.
ENERGY STAR BENCHMARKING/
BUILDING CERTIFICATION
Benchmarking is a process that involves calculating the building’s annual energy consumption per square foot, allowing buildings to be compared and identifying areas for improving energy efficiency. If a building receives a score of 75 or higher, it indicates that the building is in the top 25% of similar buildings nationally and can be certified as an ENERGY STAR® building.
STATE Facilities STRATEGY
The HSEO developed a multi-part energy strategy for improved energy efficiency, building operational performance, and utility bill savings potential for small- to medium-sized State-owned facilities (between 10,000 – 200,000 sq ft.). The State Facility Energy Strategy was based on preliminary desktop assessments on a representative sample of the applicable State-owned facilities. The project is consistent with Act 239 Session Laws of Hawaiʻi, 2022. The categories of energy solutions explored through the State Facility Energy Strategy project included:
- Building efficiency: Energy
- Building efficiency: Water
- Solar photovoltaic (PV) renewable energy systems and battery energy storage systems (BESS)
- Demand management and demand response
- Vehicle electrification and electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE)
- Financial feasibility
STATE AGENCY ELECTRICITY BILLS
Pursuant to HRS §196-32, HSEO is required to collect all utility bills and energy usage data for state-owned facilities monthly and shall make this information available in a publicly accessible format. [L 2022, c 239, pt of §2].
To fulfill this requirement, the state agency billing data is below.
HSEO continues to collaborate with local utilities to provide clear and easily accessible information to the public.

--- SOURCE: https://energy.hawaii.gov/what-we-do/energy-efficiency/ ---
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Hawai‘i’s overall goal for energy efficiency is to reduce electricity consumption by 4,300 gigawatt-hours by 2030. To meet this goal, the state aligns the efficiency regulatory policy framework with clean energy goals; supports the retrofitting of existing residential and commercial buildings; strengthens new construction policies and building codes; and identifies non-building-related energy efficiency measures.
Looking ahead, there are vast opportunities for new gains in energy efficiency. Hawai‘i aims to maximize efficiency through technology, building practices, retrofits, and changes in consumer behavior.
LEAD by Example
Our state energy policy is rooted in one principle: a commitment to maximize the deployment of cost-effective investments in clean energy production and management, promoting Hawai‘i’s energy security.
SOLAR HOT WATER HEATER MANDATE
After January 1, 2010, any new single-family dwelling built in Hawai‘i is required to have a solar water heater. Find more information about requesting a solar water heater variance.
HAWAI’I GREEN BUSINESS PROGRAM
The Hawai‘i Green Business Program (HGBP) is a free state program that assists and recognizes businesses that strive to operate in an environmentally and socially responsible manner.
A partnership between the Hawai‘i State Energy Office, the State’s Department of Health, and the Board of Water Supply, this program highlights businesses that are dedicated to creating a sustainable Hawai‘i.

--- SOURCE: https://energy.hawaii.gov/solar-water-heat-variance/ ---
SOLAR WATER HEATER MANDATE
Pursuant to HRS §196-6.5 no building permit shall be issued for a new single-family dwelling that does not include a solar water heater system that meets the standards established pursuant to section 269-44, unless the chief energy officer of the Hawaii state energy office approves a variance.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Aloha!
To improve accuracy, consistency, and fairness in the Solar Water Heater Variance (SWHV) review process, the following updates have been implemented:
Questions or Support
If you have any questions or experience issues with the new workbook, please contact the Hawai‘i State Energy Office at [email protected].
the BASICS OF hawaiʻi’s SOLAR WATER HEATER MANDATE
What is the Solar Water Heater Mandate?
By statute, any new single-family dwelling built in the State of Hawai‘i must have a solar water heater. This law applies to accessory dwelling units (ADUs) and similar single-family dwellings. It does not apply to duplexes, triplexes, condos, or other multi-family dwellings. The law states that solar water heater systems are required for new single-family residential construction.
On or after January 1, 2010, no building permits are issued for new single-family dwellings that do not include a solar water heater system that meets the standards established by the state, unless the chief energy officer of the Hawai‘i State Energy Office approves a variance. Variance applications are only accepted if submitted by an architect or licensed mechanical engineer who attests that:
- Installation is impracticable due to poor solar resource;
- Installation is cost-prohibitive based upon a life cycle cost-benefit analysis that incorporates the average residential utility bill and the cost of the new solar water heater system with a life cycle that does not exceed fifteen years;
- A renewable energy technology system is substituted for use as the primary energy source for heating water; or
- A demand water heater device approved by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., is installed; provided that at least one other gas appliance is installed in the dwelling. For this paragraph, “demand water heater” means a gas-tankless instantaneous water heater that provides hot water only as it is needed.”
The legislature intends that the variances provided for in Act 204, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2008 (Act 204) will be rarely, if ever, exercised or granted because the burden of proof will lie with the applicant to demonstrate that a solar water heater system, regardless of location or circumstance, is not cost-effective in the context of a 30-year mortgage term.
SOLAR WATER HEATER VARIANCES
If you are considering requesting a “variance” (exemption) from the solar water heater law, your architect or mechanical engineer is required to submit a Solar Water Heater Variance Request to the Hawai‘i State Energy Office. As required by HRS Section 196-6.5:
“(a)… A variance application shall only be accepted if submitted by an architect or mechanical engineer licensed under chapter 464 …
(b) A request for a variance shall be submitted to the chief energy officer of the Hawai‘i state energy office on an application prescribed by the chief energy officer of the Hawai‘i state energy office.”
SUBMITTING REQUESTS USING ONLINE APPLICATION
Architects and Mechanical Engineers
Please use this online application to submit solar water heater variance requests. Pursuant to HRS §196-6.5, only architects and mechanical engineers licensed to do business in the State of Hawai‘i may submit a request for a solar water heater variance.
Required Processing Fee of $25 for Every Variance Request
Each request for a solar water heater variance submitted through the online application requires a $25 payment by credit card or eCheck.
Be sure to complete the online application correctly. Any incorrect or missing information will cause the request to be DENIED.
There are no refunds for denied requests.
The online application allows for easier fee payment and tracking of your variance request. However, if you prefer to submit a variance request using the manual process, see the section below for instructions and links for submitting a request via e-mail, U.S. mail, or hand-delivery.
SUBMITTING REQUESTS USING OFFLINE APPLICATION
Requests submitted via e-mail, U.S. Postal Service, and hand-delivery also require a $25 per request processing fee. For these offline requests, a check in the amount of $25 per request payable to “State of Hawaii-DBEDT” must accompany the variance request or be mailed to:
DBEDT Hawaii State Energy Office
SWH Variance
P.O. Box 2359
Honolulu, HI 96804-2359
One check can cover multiple solar water heater variance requests if they are all submitted at the same time.
Write the Tax Map Key (TMK) number at the bottom of the check.
Note: If a check is not received within 10 business days of the receipt of the variance request or if the check does not clear within 29 business days of receipt of the variance request, the request shall be DENIED.
Be sure to follow directions and complete the variance request correctly. Incorrect or missing information will cause the request to be DENIED.
There are no refunds for denied requests.
OFFLINE REQUEST FORM FOR A SOLAR WATER HEATER VARIANCE
The variance request form has been revised to reflect the new gas demand tankless water heater requirements.
All solar water heater variance requests must use the latest form below. The use of older forms will cause the request to be denied.
Click on the link below for a PDF version of the Request for Variance form. Use this form if submitting a variance via e-mail, U.S. mail, or hand-delivery. Use of older forms will not be accepted and will cause the request to be denied. There are no refunds for denied requests.
Follow the instructions on the form. Incorrect or incomplete forms shall cause the variance request to be denied.
Offline Variance submittal information:
- E-mail: [email protected].
- U.S. Postal Service: DBEDT Hawai‘i State Energy Office, SWH Variance, P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, HI 96804-2359.
- Hand-delivery: DBEDT Hawai‘i State Energy Office, 235 South Beretania Street, 5th Floor, Room 504, Honolulu, HI 96813. Office hours are Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Closed on state and federal holidays.
A Life Cycle Cost Comparison (LCCC) worksheet must be submitted with a variance request if selecting Justification #1 (installation of a solar water heater is impracticable or cost prohibitive) or Justification #3 (gas-tankless instantaneous water heater). Instructions to complete the LCCC and an explanation of the LCCC can be found in the links below. Solar water heater variance requests and LCCC worksheets must be signed and stamped by a Hawai‘i-licensed architect or mechanical engineer and sent using the submittal information listed above. If submitting by email, please note “SWH Variance” in the subject box.
The Microsoft Excel spreadsheet used to calculate life cycle costs for solar and other methods of water heating contains formulae that cannot be calculated unless you use the Excel software. Here is the link to the current LCCC:
The chart below summarizes all the requests for a variance from the solar water heater mandate processed by the DBEDT Hawai‘i State Energy Office. It is updated regularly as requests are received and as variances are approved, denied, or not accepted.
MARCH 3, 2021, NOTICE
Anyone considering an application for a variance from the residential solar water heater law should be aware that all five of the following requirements must be met if a gas-tankless instantaneous (on-demand gas) water heater is the selected alternative:
- Approved (certified) by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) or other nationally recognized testing laboratory.
- At least one additional gas appliance must be installed in the dwelling.
- The gas water heater must provide hot water only as it is needed.
- The burden of proof will lie with the applicant to demonstrate that a solar water heater system, regardless of location or circumstance, is not cost-effective in the context of a 30-year mortgage term.
- The applicant must be the party who will ultimately pay for the energy cost consumption.
For questions, contact [email protected].

--- SOURCE: https://energy.hawaii.gov/diesel-replacement/ ---
DIESEL REPLACEMENT REBATE PROGRAM
Diesel Replacement Rebate Program – Now Open Through 2028
Updates:
- Chargers that must meet the Build America Buy America requirements are not eligible for funding through DRR
- Additional non-highway agriculture vehicles are eligible for funding
- Program funding has been expanded. Rebates will be awarded on a rolling basis through September 30, 2028, or until funds are exhausted.
Jump to Build America Buy America Section
Note on Program Guide
The current Program Guide reflects Year 3 of the DRR program. An updated guide reflecting the program’s extension through 2028 is pending. The technical requirements and eligibility criteria remain the same; only program dates and related administrative details will be revised. Applicants may continue to use the existing guide until the updated version is posted.
The Diesel Replacement Rebate (DRR) program provides rebates for the replacement of medium- and heavy-duty diesel vehicles with new, battery-electric equivalents. Presented by the Hawai‘i State Energy Office in partnership with the Hawai‘i Department of Health, the DRR is funded by the Volkswagen Environmental Mitigation Trust, and the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act.
Hawai‘i has a goal of a net-negative carbon economy as soon as practicable but no later than 2045. This goal is supported by Hawai‘i’s objective to increase energy security and self-sufficiency by planning for the reduction and ultimate elimination of Hawai‘i’s dependence on imported fuels for electrical generation and ground transportation.
In 2020, Hawai‘i joined with 14 other states and the District of Columbia as signatories to the Multi-State Medium- and Heavy-Duty Zero Emission Vehicle Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), which, among other things, is an agreement to strive to make sales of all new medium- and heavy-duty vehicles in their jurisdictions zero-emission vehicles by no later than 2050. To ensure adequate progress toward the MOU 2050 goal, the signatory states aspire to make at least 30 percent of all new medium- and heavy-duty vehicle sales in their jurisdictions zero-emission vehicles by no later than 2030.
The Diesel Replacement Rebate is one way that Hawai‘i is supporting its community and encouraging the transition to zero-emission vehicles.
Year 1 of the Diesel Replacement Rebate (DRR) Program opened on October 29, 2021, at 9:00 a.m. (HST). The program started accepting applications under updated guidelines on February 7, 2022.
Year 2 of the DRR opened on February 7, 2023
Year 3 of the DRR program has opened on March 20, 2024
Program Now Extended Through 2028
The DRR program has been expanded, with additional funding available to support more vehicle replacements. Rebates will continue to be awarded through September 30, 2028, or until program funds are fully expended.
DRR PROGRAM INFORMATION AND RESOURCES
Available Funds
Over $7 million is currently available for program rebates. Rebates are worth up to 45% of project cost.
The Diesel Replacement Rebate (DRR) provides rebates toward the purchase of a new zero emission vehicle to replace an existing diesel vehicle. Participants are required to scrap the existing vehicle.
Please note that participants are responsible for scrappage costs.
DRR Program Information Guide
Potential applicants are strongly encouraged to thoroughly read the Program Guide prior to applying.
Note on Program Guide
The current Program Guide and Sample Application reflect Year 3 of the DRR program. Updated materials will be posted to reflect the program’s extension through 2028. The technical requirements and eligibility criteria remain the same; only program dates and related administrative details are being revised. Applicants may continue to use the existing materials until the updated versions are available.
Eligible Participants
Public and private organizations within the State of Hawai‘i with eligible projects are encouraged to apply. employees and contractors/sub-recipients of Hawaii Department of Health – Clean Air Branch and the Hawaii State Energy Office are not eligible. Funds will be reserved for eligible projects on a first come, first served basis.
Eligible Vehicle Types
- School buses.
- Transit, shuttle, and tour buses.
- Medium- or heavy-duty trucks.
- Diesel-powered non-road engines, equipment, or vehicles including those used in agriculture, and at ports and airports.
Replacement vehicles: battery electric or hydrogen-powered.
Charger: Projects can include the purchase of one charging unit per vehicle.
Process Overview
- Organization submits project application.
- Funds are reserved if project is eligible.
- Participant signs Agreement and begins project.
- Participant receives the new vehicle.
- Old vehicle is scrapped.
- Participant provides final documentation and receives rebate.
Required Documents
- Vendor Quote: Applicants will be required to submit a vendor quote for the vehicle (and charger, if applicable). The quote(s) should be dated and include a complete breakdown of all material costs as applicable: vehicle, hardware, warranty costs, freight or shipping costs, installation costs, setup fees, and the sales tax with the percentage rate indicated.
- Project Details Excel File: Applicants must submit a Project Details excel file at the time of application. This can be filled out in excel and uploaded with the application. Download a template by clicking here
Build America Buy America Requirements
Certain projects under this program are subject to the Buy America Sourcing requirements under the Build America, Buy America (BABA) provisions of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) (P.L. 117-58, §§70911- 70917) that requires that all of the iron, steel, manufactured products, and construction materials used in public infrastructure projects funded by federal dollars must be produced in the United States.
For the purposes of this rebate, infrastructure refers to electric vehicle chargers.
EV chargers funded through this program will be subject to this requirement if they serve a public function. For example, a charger is considered to serve a public function if it is publicly owned or supports a vehicle that serves a public function, such as a school bus.
On highway vehicles/engines and non-road engines/equipment funded by this program are not considered “infrastructure.”
Chargers that must meet the BABA requirements are not eligible for funding through the Diesel Replacement Rebate.
Applicants are encouraged to reach out to HSEO to discuss their project if they are unsure how BABA applies. Applicants can email [email protected].
Past Program Year Documents
Year 2 Program Documents
OTHER PROGRAMS YOU MAY BE ELiGIBLE FOR
Make Ready Pilot, offered by Hawaiian Electric
Pilot program allows Hawaiian Electric to design, build, own, and maintain make-ready infrastructure up to a point of connection with the customer’s charging equipment.
Charging Station rebates, offered by Hawai‘i Energy
Hawai‘i Energy is offering up to $35,000 per networked DC fast charging station.

--- SOURCE: https://energy.hawaii.gov/energy-landscape/renewable-energy-resources-page/ ---
RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES
The percentage of renewable energy generated in Hawai‘i has doubled since 2014.
Renewable Energy Progress in Hawai’i
These graphics represent the share or percentage (1) and absolute amount (2) of electricity generation by resource type across Hawaiʻi’s islands. Hawaiʻi Island and Kauaʻi lead the state in renewable penetration, each exceeding 50 percent of net generation, supported by resource diversity—geothermal and distributed solar on Hawaiʻi Island, and utility-scale solar, distributed PV, and hydroelectric power on Kauaʻi. Maui County follows with just over 40 percent renewable generation, driven primarily by distributed solar and wind. Oʻahu, which serves the majority of the state’s electricity demand, has a lower renewable share at 31 percent, with distributed solar as the largest renewable contributor alongside utility-scale solar, wind, and biomass.
In absolute terms, however, Oʻahu dominates statewide electricity generation and fossil fuel use, meaning its resource mix heavily influences overall decarbonization outcomes. While the neighbor islands achieve higher renewable percentages, their smaller total generation limits their impact on statewide totals. Together, the charts highlight both Hawaiʻi’s progress in deploying renewables and the continued importance of transitioning large, fossil-dependent systems—particularly Oʻahu—to achieve statewide clean energy and emissions goals.
Source: Public Utilities Commission (PUC) Docket 2007-0008. 2024 Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) Annual Status Reports. https://puc.hawaii.gov/reports/energy-reports/renewable-portfolio-standards-rps-annual-reports/
SOLAR
Solar energy—derived from the Sun’s light and heat. In Hawai‘i, solar energy contributes to the state’s clean energy goals by generating electricity and reducing reliance on fossil fuels.
Photovoltaics (PV)
Photovoltaic systems convert sunlight directly into electricity using solar cells, without the need for moving parts or steam. When sunlight strikes a solar cell, it creates a voltage difference, generating a direct current (DC) that can be used on-site or fed into the electric grid after conversion to alternating current (AC).
Distributed vs Utility-Scale, Why the Distinction Matters
Utilities treat distributed and utility-scale solar differently due to their impact on grid operations:
- Distributed solar introduces variability at the distribution level, which can affect voltage stability and require upgrades in local infrastructure or control systems.
- Utility-scale solar is typically connected at the transmission level, offering greater control and predictability for utility system operators.
Solar Thermal
Solar thermal systems use sunlight to heat fluids for various applications:
- Residential water heating (up to ~160°F), significantly reduces electricity use and costs.
- Electricity generation (750°–2,000°F) through concentrated solar power (CSP) systems, which focus solar energy to produce high temperatures that generate steam to drive a turbine.
In Hawai‘i, tens of thousands of solar water heaters are in use, helping households reduce their electricity bills by displacing traditional water heating systems.
Learn more about Solar Energy with this Fact Sheet:
Photo courtesy of Hawai‘i Gas, Waihonu Solar Farm
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (BESS)
Battery energy storage systems are often integrated with renewable energy systems to store excess energy for later use. These systems enhance the reliability and predictability of renewable energy sources, effectively extending their usefulness. Batteries can be made from a variety of rechargeable mineral elements. Currently, the most commonly known system is lithium-ion, but the industry is going through a significant transformative phase as scientists are innovating solutions to increase battery performance and diversify production options to lessen reliance on specific minerals.
Learn more about BESS with this fact sheet:
GEOTHERMAL
Geothermal energy harnesses the naturally occurring heat beneath the Earth’s surface to generate electricity. In Hawai‘i, it is a firm, dispatchable, low-carbon resource that helps provide consistent local power and supports grid reliability alongside variable renewable resources like wind and solar.
The Hawai‘i State Energy Office (HSEO) is advancing efforts to responsibly expand geothermal resources to help achieve the state’s energy goals and reduce reliance on imported fuels.
Learn more about geothermal technology and HSEO’s ongoing work through the links below.
BIOENERGY
Bioenergy comes from organic materials. Biomass can be used to produce electricity, can be converted into liquid fuels (called “biofuels”), or can be burned to produce heat for cooking or other uses.
Click below to view a map of bioenergy projects in Hawai‘i. Disclaimer applies.
Please view map on a bigger screen.
Biomass
Biomass is plant and animal matter and includes energy crops, wood, grasses, algae, vegetable oils, and agricultural and municipal wastes.
Biofuels
Biofuels are liquid fuels made from biomass. As defined in Section 486J-1 of the Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, “Biofuels means liquid or gaseous fuels produced from organic sources such as biomass crops, agricultural residues, and oil crops such as palm oil, canola oil, soybean oil, waste cooking oil, grease, and food wastes, animal residues and wastes, and sewage and landfill wastes.”
Learn more about Bioenergy with this Fact Sheet:
RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS (RNG)
Renewable Natural Gas (RNG) also know as biogas, is a form of gaseous energy created from the decomposition of organic matter, such as wastewater biosolids, food wastes or animal manure under anaerobic conditions, or conditions without oxygen. Gas produced in this manner for production and use is pipeline quality and interchangeable with conventional natural gas, including synthetic natural gas (SNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG), both currently used in Hawaiʻi.
There is currently one RNG plant located on O‘ahu, which utilizes the methane from the Honouliuli Wastewater Treatment Plant. The facility is capable of producing enough gas for more than 6,000 homes.
More information on the Honouliuli Natural Gas Plant operated by Hawai‘i Gas is available at: https://www.hawaiigas.com/clean-energy/decarbonization
Photo courtesy of Pacific Biodiesel (www.biodiesel.com). The founders of Pacific Biodiesel, Bob and Kelly King, are farming sunflowers and other crops at their farm on Maui, showcasing a community-based model of sustainable agriculture, renewable fuel and food that is helping Hawaii achieve a clean energy future.
WIND
Onshore Wind
Onshore Wind, or wind that is sited on land, has been developed on Oʻahu, Maui, and Hawai‘i Island. In total, nine utility-scale wind projects accounted for 8.1% of the total energy sales in the state in 2021. Onshore wind has not been a desirable technology in areas where there are large populations of endangered bird species. For example, on Kauaʻi, where there are large populations of seabirds, onshore wind has not been developed.
Click below to view a map of wind projects in Hawaii. Disclaimer applies.
Please view map on a bigger screen.
Learn more about Wind Energy with this Fact Sheet:
Photo courtesy of Hawaiian Electric, Wind Farm on Maui
Courtesy Kauai Island Electric Utility
HYDROELECTRIC (HYDROPOWER)
Hydroelectric facilities were among the first power plants in the islands, dating back to the late 1800s. Some of Hawai‘i’s existing hydroelectric plants date back to the early 1900s and have been maintained and upgraded to continue producing power.
Hawai‘i has “run-of-the-river” hydro plants, which means free-flowing water is used to spin a turbine and generate electricity. For these projects, a regulated volume of water is diverted from its natural waterway into the pumphouse and then rerouted back to its original waterway. The amount of energy generated by a run-of-the-river hydro plant depends on the volume of water in a waterway and the speed at which is flows. Electrical output from Hawai‘i’s hydro plants is heavily impacted by annual rainfall due to reliance on surface waters.
Another hydroelectric resource being explored in Hawai‘i is “pumped storage.” Unlike run-of-the-river plants, pumped storage hydro projects allow operators to control when a hydroelectric facility discharges electricity. In many cases, including the West Kauaʻi Energy Project now being pursued on Kauaʻi, solar energy is used to pump the water “upstream” from the lower reservoir to the upper reservoir, making these facilities 100% renewable.
Click below to view a map of hydroelectric projects in Hawaii. Disclaimer applies.
Please view map on a bigger screen.
Learn more about Hydroelectric Power with this fact sheet:
HYDROGEN
Hydrogen has diverse applications and can be produced from renewable sources, stored, and utilized in various sectors such as transportation, electricity generation, and industry. It is particularly well-suited for medium- and heavy-duty transportation due to its high energy density and the challenges of electrification in these sectors.
Hydrogen can be used as a fuel, but unlike traditional fossil fuel sources, it is not a primary energy source—it must be produced using energy, making it more akin to an energy carrier or storage mechanism. Additionally, hydrogen can be blended with natural gas and distributed through pipelines for use in homes and businesses as part of the utility gas supply.
Learn more about Hydrogen with this fact sheet:
OCEAN
The ocean holds a great deal of the Earth’s energy — the Sun heats the surface, wind creates waves, and tidal forces exerted by the Sun and the Moon create tidal fluxes. Hawai‘i has significant wave and ocean thermal resources but minimal potential for tidal energy due to its relatively mild tidal changes. Most potential technologies that would harness ocean energy resources are in early pilot stages and have not yet been commercialized.
Thermal Energy (heat)
Two major ocean thermal technologies are of interest in Hawai‘i: seawater air conditioning (SWAC) and ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC). Both rely on the fact that the deep ocean is significantly colder than the tropical surface.
SWAC projects have also been proposed off Honolulu; however, none have yet come to fruition.
Marine Hydrokinetic Energy (motion – wave or tidal)
Marine hydrokinetic (MHK) technologies tap the kinetic energy of the ocean — the energy carried by moving water. Most typically, the ocean’s motion is converted to useable electricity by a device that either spins as the water flows past it or bobs up and down in the water. This means MHK facilities can generate more electricity from the oscillating (short period) rough seas created by trade winds than the slow and spread out (long period) swells that generate the famously large waves in Hawai‘i. Therefore, Hawai‘i’s relatively consistent trade winds are attractive for MHK developers.
Hawai‘i hosts one of the world’s most unique MHK test facilities: Wave Energy Test Site (WETS) off the Kāneʻohe Marine Corps Base Hawai‘i (KMCBH) on Oʻahu. In partnership with the Hawai‘i National Marine Renewable Energy Center connected to the Hawai‘i Natural Energy Institute and the University of Hawai‘i, wave buoy manufacturers can test the performance of their wave buoy designs.
Learn more about Ocean Energy with this fact sheet:
