--- SOURCE: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/pds/solarpv.html ---
Getting Started with Solar Photovoltaic
Are you planning to install a solar photovoltaic (PV) system on your property? The installation of solar PV is regulated by the Zoning Ordinance and requires approval of a building permit. These systems are an accessory use to residential, agricultural, civic, commercial, or industrial uses (except if approved by a Major Use Permit).
The following main components are part of the process to obtain your permit for a solar PV system:
ZONING
Solar PV on-site: Solar PV, on-site (including roof-mounted) is when the energy produced is utilized within/on the parcel where the photovoltaic is located.
Solar PV off-site: Solar PV, off-site is when the energy produced is transferred to a different parcel than the one where the photovoltaic is located and operated.
-
Solar PV, off-site less than 10 acres is
regulated per Section 6952.b.1 of the Zoning Ordinance and requires
approval of an Administrative Permit.
- A complete Administrative Permit application submittal package can be found on the County of San Diego’s web-site here: Photovoltaic Off-Site Under 10 Acres
-
Solar PV, off-site greater than 10 acres is
regulated per Section 6952.b.2 of the Zoning Ordinance and requires
approval of a Major Use Permit.
- A complete Major Use Permit application submittal package can be found on the County of San Diego’s web-site here: Photovoltaic Off-Site Over 10 Acres
- Additionally, Planning & Development Services requires applicants to participate in a mandatory Major Project Pre-Application Meeting for Major Use Permits. The mandatory pre-application consultation is expected to set reasonable expectations and identify major issues early in the process in order to avoid redesign, rewrites and additional work later in the process. More information is available here: Major Project Pre-App
For for additional zoning information: Zoning Ordinance (search for section "6952" and see subsection b)
BUILDING
Form PDS 441a outlines how to obtain a building permit.
Before preparing the plot plan for ground-mounted solar PV systems, please review the minimum requirements outlined in form PDS 090. For roof-mounted systems, please review the residential building code plan check corrections list for roof-mounted solar PV systems, form PDS 074.
Extensive additional information is available on the Building Division's Building Forms and Handouts page.
Residential roof-mounted solar PV permits, including combination solar PV permits with electrical service upgrade and/or advance energy storage systems, are available online through the Planning & Development Services (County of San Diego) Citizen Access. Additional step-by step permit guidance can also be found at the Roof-Mount Solar PV Online Application guidance document.
Residential roof-mounted solar PV permits, including combination solar PV permits with electrical service upgrade and/or advance energy storage systems, are available online through the Planning & Development Services (County of San Diego) Citizen Access. Additional step-by step permit guidance can also be found at the Roof-Mount Solar PV Online Application guidance document.
COST
Residential Solar PV Building Permits
Currently, the
cost to plan check/permit a residential solar PV building permit is
waived by the County of San Diego. However, fees for residential solar
PV building permits could be incurred if the Department of
Environmental Health and/or the Department of Public Works need to
review the building plans. This is typically only required for ground
mount solar PV.
Off-Site Solar PV Discretionary Permits
In addition to
the cost above for residential building permits, off-site solar PV
installations will require a deposit to process the mandatory
discretionary permit. For deposit information of discretionary permits
please see form PDS 369.
It is also recommended that you contact the Department of Environmental Health at (858) 565-5173 and the Department of Public Works at (85) 694-2055 regarding possible or additional fees.
Commercial Solar PV Building Permits
If the solar PV
project is to be used by a commercial business or for commercial
purposes, building permit fees are typically not waived as with
residential projects. To calculate the cost of commercial solar PV
building permit fees, please contact the Building Department (858)
565-5920, or (888) 336-7553.
TIMELINE
On-Site:
Residential on-site solar PV building permits
are typically processed over-the-counter (OTC) if all documents have
been completed properly and the plans have been prepared correctly.
Please note that OTC does not necessarily mean the permit will be
issued the same day, only that it does not have to be submitted for
review. If corrections are required in order to complete the permit,
the applicant will need to make appropriate corrections and return for
a subsequent review.
Please note that large residential solar PV project review cannot be done OTC, and will be required to submit plans for building permit review. Commercial solar PV projects, whether roof or ground mounted must be submitted for plan-check review and cannot be processed OTC.
Off-Site:
Approval of a discretionary permit is required
before a building permit can be issued for an off-site solar PV
project. Every effort will be made to process the required
discretionary permit (Administrative Permit or Major Use Permit) as
quickly as possible. Approval of the discretionary permit must be met
and all conditions must be satisfied before a building permit can be issued.
Acknowledgement: This material is
based upon work supported by the Department of Energy under Award
Number DE-EE0000902.
Disclaimer: This report was prepared
as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States
Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency
thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express
or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for
the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information,
apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its
use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to
any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade
name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily
constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring
by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views
and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state
or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/ais.html ---
Select a language using the Google™ Translate feature above to change the text on this site into other languages. *We cannot guarantee the accuracy of any information translated through Google™ Translate. This translation feature is offered as an additional resource for information.
Seleccione un idioma usando la función Google ™ Translate de arriba
para traducir este sitio.
使用上面的Google™翻译功能选择一种语言来翻译此网站.
Chọn ngôn ngữ bằng tính
năng Dịch Google ™ ở trên để dịch trang web này.
Pumili ng isang wika gamit ang tampok na Google ™ Translate sa itaas
upang i-translate ang site na ito.

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/bhs.html ---
Behavioral Health Services
Looking for mental health or substance use services for you or a loved one?
Not sure where to start?
Call or text 9-8-8 or dial 1-888-724-7240 to speak to someone who can help find the right services for you or someone you care about. Both numbers are operated 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with support available in over 200 languages. For more information visit Get Help Now or All Services. If you are experiencing an emergency, please call 9-1-1.

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/cs/child_welfare_services.html ---
Child and Family Well-Being
For more information about Child and Family Well-Being, call the KidsLine at 877-792-KIDS (5437).
Report suspected child abuse or neglect at 858-560-2191 24 hours a day, seven days a week, or from within the State of California, call toll-free 1(800) 344-6000.
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB is committed to excellence in the delivery of culturally competent, family-centered and child-focused protective services. CFWB investigates reports of suspected child abuse and neglect and intervenes with families who do not meet the minimum community standards of health and safety as required by law. Investigations are conducted in a thorough and professional manner. Family interventions are completed in the least intrusive manner necessary for the protection of the child. In addition to these services, CFWB administers the following: Polinsky Children’s Center, a 24-hour facility for the temporary emergency shelter of children; San Pasqual Academy, a first-in-the-nation residential education campus for adolescent foster youth; foster care eligibility and licensing; group home placement services for foster youth with emotional and behavioral issues; services to emancipating foster youth; adoptive home assessments and placements; and critical support services to regional operations.
Child and Family Well-Being
The County of San Diego has developed the Child and Family
Well-Being (CFWB) Department to fundamentally shift how
children, youth, families, and communities are supported. We want to
prevent children and youth from entering the child welfare system and
create a partnership with families, leveraging their experience, to
hold them as the experts in keeping their children safe.
Services offered by Child and Family Well-Being:
Adoptions
County of San Diego Adoptions serves all members of the adoption triad: adoptees, birth families, and adoptive parents. Both voluntary relinquishments, and adoptions of children from the foster care system, are handled by the agency. Free, no-obligation orientations are available for those interested in learning more about available services, including, ongoing, professional education and training classes about adoption issues.
Career/Volunteer Opportunities
Are you inspired to see children and families thrive and want to work with culturally mindful, dedicated professionals? This may be the place for you! CFWB is committed to strengthening families by providing trauma-informed prevention and protection services to vulnerable children, their families, and communities across the county to reduce child abuse and neglect.
Child Abuse Hotline
Are you worried that a child is being abused or neglected? Call 858-560-2191 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Within the state of California, call toll free 1(800) 344-6000.
Child and Family Strengthening Advisory Board
The Board of Supervisors has taken a strong leadership role in supporting efforts to prevent and respond to child abuse and neglect. The efforts focus on strengthening families by identifying and addressing the needs of children and youth who are in the public charge as well as those whose safety and welfare may be at risk.
Child Welfare Improvements and the COAS
The County of San Diego Child Welfare Improvements was developed to respond to the California Outcomes and Accountability System (COAS). This was formerly known as the California-Child and Family Service Review (C-CFSR).
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB) Policy Manual
Policies for Child Welfare practice.
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB) Resources for Families
Resources available for Families
Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (Human Trafficking)
Human trafficking is the second largest underground economy in San Diego, at an estimated $810 million annually. When minors under age 18 are trafficked, this is child abuse. We usually identify girls as victims of trafficking, but boys and youth of all genders are regularly targeted. If you or someone you know needs help, please call our Child Abuse Hotline at (800) 344-6000. Caring, trained people are available 24 hours a day.
Data
Available data reports include the Annual Statistics Report and the CFWB Dashboard.
Foster Care Services Committee
To meet monthly with representatives from community-based organizations and County programs that directly impact foster families.
Family Urgent Response System (FURS)
FURS includes a 24/7 Statewide Hotline and a 24/7 County-based Mobile Response and Stabilization Team. FURS will provide current and former foster youth (up to age 21) and their caregivers with immediate, trauma-informed support by caring and trained professionals when they need it.
Independent Living Skills
Independent Living Skills is a program designed to assist 16 to 18 year olds who are in out-of-home placement and are likely to remain there until they can live on their own.
Ombudsman
The County of San Diego Child and Family Well-Being takes your concerns seriously and handles them with the utmost diligence. Depending on the nature of your concern, we have three options to handle the issue most effectively:
- CFWB Office of the Ombudsman
- Resource Parent Ombudsman
- HHSA Business Assurance and Compliance
If you are a foster youth and want to elevate your concerns while in foster care, please contact the California Foster Care Ombudsperson at (877) 846-1602, or fosteryouthhelp.ca.gov.
Placement and Support Services: Open your heart to a child/youth in foster care
Children in your neighborhood need your help now. At any given time, there are about 1,500 children in out of home care. To learn more about becoming a resource family, click here.
COVID-19 FAQs for FFAs and STRTPs 4/9/20
COVID-19 FAQs for FFAs and STRTPs 4/20/20
Foster Parent Request for MyChart Proxy Access
Foster Youth Rights Handbook (Spanish)
Foster Youth Bill of Rights Coloring Book
Polinsky Children's Center
The A.B. and Jessie Polinsky Children's Center is a 24-hour facility for the temporary emergency shelter of children who must be separated from their families for their own safety, or when parents can not provide care.
Polinsky Children's Center (PCC) Advisory Board
The PCC Advisory Board shall consist of five members, all of whom shall be residents of the County of San Diego.
Relative Notification
Child and Family Well-Being is committed to the importance of relatives and the role they play in a family’s life. Relatives provide important family and lifelong connections for children involved with Child and Family Well-Being. Relatives can provide critical support when the mother and father cannot.
Respite Services
The County of San Diego Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB) values our collaborative partnership with Resource Families and recognizes both the importance of providing supportive services and the unique needs of Resource Families. We understand that the role of the caregiver can be challenging and that supportive services are vital to success.
Safe4Baby
Safe4Baby focuses on educating parents and caregivers about four primary areas: Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), Safe Sleeping, Shaken Baby Syndrome and the Safely Surrendered Baby Law.
San Pasqual Academy
San Pasqual Academy, a first-in-the-nation residential education campus designed specifically for foster youth, serves as a placement option for dependents of the Juvenile Court, 12-17 years old, and Non-Minor Dependents (NMDs) up to age 19 years old.
Child and Family Well-Being (CFWB): Safety Enhanced
Together (Strengthening Children and Families) (Video)
Guide To Child and Family Well-Being and Juvenile Dependency Court (Printable Guide)
Guía de Bienestar del Niño y la Familia y Tribunal de Dependencia de Menores (guía imprimible)
Guide to CFWB and Juvenile Dependency Court: Part 1 (Video)
Guide to CFWB and Juvenile Dependency Court: Part 2 (Video)
Guide to CFWB and Juvenile Dependency Court: Part 3 (Video)
Una Guia del Sistema Bienestar al Menor Para Padres de Familia (vídeo) (Updated version coming soon)

--- SOURCE: https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/mcsd.html ---
Medical Care Services
PUBLIC HEALTH CENTERS
The Public Health Centers offer a variety of services to the community.
Open Monday - Wednesday and Friday 8am to 5pm, Thursday 10am - 5pm. Clinic hours may be extended to meet community needs.
For an appointment, please call the most convenient public health center or make an on-line appointment. An appointment is not required to receive services. For instructions on how to make an appointment, click here.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE SURVEY
The County of San Diego, Medical Care Services strives to provide every one of our customers with a positive experience and would like to hear your thoughts. Your input will help us provide exceptional services.
