--- SOURCE: http://bit.ly/1suoNdB ---
Oops! We're sorry.
Something went wrong. Please try again in a few minutes.
As a department of the City of Austin, Austin Energy uses an independent, online tool to provide automated (machine) translations on our websites. As with any machine translation, context and accuracy cannot be guaranteed.
If you experience difficulty with our translated text or need assistance, please call 512-494-9400 or 3-1-1 to speak with a representative. Thank you.
Como departamento de la Ciudad de Austin, Austin Energy utiliza una herramienta en línea independiente para proporcionar traducciones automáticas en nuestros sitios web. Como cualquier traducción automática, no se puede garantizar el contexto y la precisión.
Si tiene dificultades con nuestro texto traducido o necesita ayuda, llame al 512-494-9400 o al 3-1-1 para hablar con un representante. Gracias.
作为Austin市的一个部门，Austin能源部使用独立的在线工具提供网站的自动（机器）翻译。与任何机器翻译一样，我们无法保证翻译准确无误并符合语境。
如果您在使用我们的翻译文本时遇到困难或需要帮助，请致电512-494-9400或3-1-1告诉客服。谢谢。
Là một bộ phận của Thành phố Austin, Austin Energy sử dụng một công cụ trực tuyến, độc lập để cung cấp các bản dịch tự động (máy tính) trên các trang web của chúng tôi. Như với bất kỳ bản dịch bằng máy nào, ngữ cảnh và độ chính xác không thể được đảm bảo.
Nếu quý vị gặp khó khăn với văn bản đã dịch của chúng tôi hoặc cần được hỗ trợ. Vui lòng gọi số 512-494-9400 hoặc 3-1-1 để nói chuyện với một người đại diện. Xin cảm ơn quý vị.
As a department of the City of Austin, Austin Energy uses an independent, online tool to provide automated (machine) translations on our websites. As with any machine translation, context and accuracy cannot be guaranteed.
If you experience difficulty with our translated text or need assistance, please call 512-494-9400 or 3-1-1 to speak with a representative. Thank you.
Como departamento de la Ciudad de Austin, Austin Energy utiliza una herramienta en línea independiente para proporcionar traducciones automáticas en nuestros sitios web. Como cualquier traducción automática, no se puede garantizar el contexto y la precisión.
Si tiene dificultades con nuestro texto traducido o necesita ayuda, llame al 512-494-9400 o al 3-1-1 para hablar con un representante. Gracias.
作为Austin市的一个部门，Austin能源部使用独立的在线工具提供网站的自动（机器）翻译。与任何机器翻译一样，我们无法保证翻译准确无误并符合语境。
如果您在使用我们的翻译文本时遇到困难或需要帮助，请致电512-494-9400或3-1-1告诉客服。谢谢。
Là một bộ phận của Thành phố Austin, Austin Energy sử dụng một công cụ trực tuyến, độc lập để cung cấp các bản dịch tự động (máy tính) trên các trang web của chúng tôi. Như với bất kỳ bản dịch bằng máy nào, ngữ cảnh và độ chính xác không thể được đảm bảo.
Nếu quý vị gặp khó khăn với văn bản đã dịch của chúng tôi hoặc cần được hỗ trợ. Vui lòng gọi số 512-494-9400 hoặc 3-1-1 để nói chuyện với một người đại diện. Xin cảm ơn quý vị.
Something went wrong. Please try again in a few minutes.

--- SOURCE: https://austinenergy.com/residential/report-a-problem/avoid-solar-pv-scams ---
Tips to Avoid Solar Scams
Choosing a Trustworthy Contractor
As the solar market expands, so do the tactics of dishonest salespeople. Installing solar panels is a significant decision and investment. It's crucial to partner with a credible contractor.
Austin Energy encourages the adoption of solar energy by offering rebates and incentives to customers who use approved participating solar contractors. Only these approved contractors are permitted to assist you in accessing Austin Energy's solar rebates.
10 ways Austin Energy customers can protect themselves and save money on solar:
- Seek out an Austin Energy participating solar contractor. To be eligible for Austin Energy's solar rebates, you must work with one of these approved companies.
- Research the Company: Before engaging with any solar company, conduct thorough research to determine its credibility. Look for reviews, check its website, and verify its credentials.
- Check that the Electrician is Licensed: Ensure the contractor holds a valid electric license, which is critical for safely and legally installing solar systems. Verify these before proceeding.
- Take the Austin Energy Solar Education Course: This course can help you in the solar buying process. It covers topics like utility services, solar system design, and financing options. It’s also a required part of the $2,500 residential rebate. Get solar smart!
- Ask Questions: A reputable company will answer your questions. Austin Energy has created a helpful list of questions to ask potential solar contractors.
- Analyze the Financing: Be cautious of deals that promise “free solar panels” or “$0 down.” Understand the financing terms and evaluate them carefully.
- Evaluate Warranty and Maintenance Services: Scammers may offer inadequate warranties or maintenance services. Make sure you understand what’s included.
- Beware of Unrealistic Promises: Scammers often promise huge savings or incentives that seem too good to be true.
- Check for Local Permits: Legitimate installers obtain necessary permits. If a company avoids this step, be wary.
- Trust Your Instincts: If something feels off, trust your gut. Seek a second opinion or consult with a trusted advisor.
Remember, scammers often prey on those who want to go solar but lack knowledge. Stay informed and protect yourself.
How to Spot a Solar Scammer
- They contacted you.
When you reach out to a business, you know who's on the other end of the line. However, when someone contacts you first, you can't be certain they're telling the truth. - They make extreme claims.
If claims sound too good to be true—like completely eliminating your electric bills or promising off-grid living—they probably are. Austin Energy customers remain connected to the grid and will continue to receive electric bills. - They give you misleading incentive information.
Anyone claiming that you can go off grid in Austin is misinforming you. However, Austin Energy does offer a $2,500 rebate for eligible residential customers and electric bill credits for solar energy production. - They want money upfront for the full amount of a project.
Only pay for fully completed work, including all required city inspections. - They want your personal information.
You should be on high alert whenever anyone asks for your personal information—such as bank account details or your social security number. Do not give it away quickly or easily, especially to someone you don't know well, as you may become a victim of identity theft.
Need Help or Have Concerns?
If you suspect fraud or have a complaint about a contractor, you can file a complaint with:
- The Consumer Protection Division of the Texas Attorney General’s office at https://www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/consumer-protection or 512-463-2185.
- Contact the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation (TDLR) at tdlr.texas.gov.
Learn More
Visit these additional resources to become more familiar with Austin Energy’s solar incentives, and information for consumers.

--- SOURCE: https://austinenergy.com/contractors/Construction-Renovation/Customer-Power-Production ---
Connecting Solar, Generators, Wind Power
Customer-Owned Power Production Facilities
See section 1.12.0 of the Design Criteria Manual (pdf) for more information about interconnecting customer-sited electric generation assets to the Austin Energy distribution system.
Socket-Mounted Transfer Switch Devices
Specifications for socket-mounted transfer switch device types by manufacturer are listed below.
| Description | Approved Manufacturers |
|
ConnectDER |
|
|
GenerLink |
|
40-amp with 75kA per phase surge protection |
GenerLink |
|
Whole home back-up switch, with a continuous load rating of 200A, to operate in conjunction with a compatible, manufacturer approved inverter |
Tesla (Tesla Backup Switch UL414 UL2735 UL916 VoC) |
|
Enphase Energy |
Socket-Mounted Transfer Switches identified above are approved for use on 200 amp residential services.
Registration Instructions
A permit is not required to install a socket-mounted transfer switch device; however, registration and a field operations consultation is required. For the registration and required "field operations consultation" request, please visit the Austin Build + Connect portal.
Contact Us
- For information and questions related to registration, email Austin Energy Distribution Metering Operations.
- For requests for approvals for devices not yet approved within the Austin Energy territory, email Advanced Metering Systems and Engineering.
Inspections for Solar Installations
Solar systems that are interconnected to the distribution system and in the Austin Energy service area require a passing inspection from Austin Energy before they can be turned on. Our inspectors are also available for on-site consultation prior to solar installation.
- Are you a solar installer? Request a solar installation inspection
- How to Tell if Austin Energy is Your Service Provider (pdf)
Distribution Interconnection Guide
This guide outlines the process for connecting a distributed generation facility. It also defines the minimum technical and financial requirements for safe integration of customer-owned power production facilities with the Austin Energy Distribution System.
Facility Connection Requirements
Austin Energy's Facility Connection Requirements inform entities who seek to connect to the Austin Energy Transmission System of facility connection requirements. The Austin Energy Data Specification informs interconnected entities of the specifications required to maintain system reliability.
- Austin Energy Facility Connection Requirements (pdf)
- Austin Energy Data & Information Specification (pdf)

--- SOURCE: https://austinenergy.com/contractors/working-with-austin-energy/rfps/Landfill-Solar-RFP ---
FM 812 Landfill Solar
Request for Proposals
The City of Austin, Texas, d/b/a Austin Energy (AUSTIN ENERGY), is seeking cost-effective proposals from experienced Bidders for the development, engineering, procurement, construction (“EPC”), commissioning, maintenance, and warranty of a utility-scale solar photovoltaic system at the City of Austin FM 812 Landfill in Austin, Texas herein referred to as “FM 812 Solar Project” or “Project.” The closed landfill site is estimated to have approximately 58 acres of usable surface area for hosting this Project. Austin Energy intends to use this to expand their existing community solar program to offset the utility bills of residents, regardless of whether they own or rent, or have a roof suitable for solar. The planned schedule is as follows:
This RFP offer window is closed, but the solicitation work remains active.
- Issue RFP: October 7, 2025
- Deadline for email questions will be 5:00 p.m. CST on November 4, 2025
- RFP responses were due by 5:00 p.m. CST on November 21, 2025
Austin Energy will review all proposals and determine a short list of proposals to consider for further evaluation. Short-listed Proposers may be contacted to provide additional information and documentation regarding their proposal.
Proposers must submit their Proposal(s) on or before the deadline to EnergySupply@austinenergy.com. Proposal format and requirements are described in the RFP. In addition, please note that by submitting a proposal, Proposers agree they have read and will abide by the City of Austin’s Non-Collusion, Non-Conflict of Interest, and Anti-Lobbying requirements found in Attachment 1.
During the RFP process, any and all questions regarding the RFP must be submitted to EnergySupply@austinenergy.com. Please note that any questions submitted after 5:00 p.m. CT on November 4, 2025 may not be reviewed or answered.
Austin Energy will prepare written responses and distribute a question and answer (Q&A) log to all intended Bidders.

--- SOURCE: https://austinenergy.com/energy-efficiency ---
Save with Rebates & Incentives for Your Home or Business
Austin Energy makes it easier than ever to make energy-efficiency upgrades and improvements to your home, business, or multifamily property. We offer year-round rebates and incentives that fit every budget.
Explore Austin Energy Green Building
We have the experience and know-how to help you construct homes and buildings that are beautiful, durable, and friendly to the environment.
ECAD for Residential Homes
Buying or selling a home that is 10 years or older? The City’s ECAD ordinance requires that you conduct an energy audit and disclose your home’s energy efficiency as part of the real estate transaction.
ECAD for Commercial Buildings
Commercial building owners are required to benchmark and report their energy use rating by June 1 each year. Benchmarking helps you take key measures to reduce your carbon footprint and save money.
ECAD for Multifamily Properties
Specialized energy audits for multifamily properties uncover energy efficiency measures that can help increase your residents’ comfort and savings on their energy bills.
