--- SOURCE: http://buildsagreen.org/ ---
Our Mission at Build San Antonio Green is to protect and enhance the quality of life of the citizens of the metropolitan San Antonio Area by developing standards by which to certify newly constructed & existing structures to green standards, and to provide leadership, expertise, and education for the wise, efficient, and sustainable use of energy and resources.
BUILD SAN ANTONIO GREEN!
WE ARE
WHAT WE DO
Our Results
68 MILLION SQ FT
OF GREEN BUILDING
33,452 PROJECTS
20 Multifamily/Mixed-Use + 33,432 Single family Homes
876,712,280 kWh
Of Avoided Generation
Protecting our air from over
76,000 Tons of Co2
Protecting our air from over
200 Tons of NOx
WHICH IS THE EQUIVALENT OF REMOVING
48,400 CARS
OFF OF SAN ANTONIO ROADS EACH YEAR

--- SOURCE: https://www.buildsagreen.org/solar ---
Bring Solar Home is a free, unbiased, technical consumer decision tool for solar options here in San Antonio. This program, brought to you by Build San Antonio Green, is designed to help you discover if solar generation is right for you, and to connect you to solar options.

--- SOURCE: https://www.buildsagreen.org/solarfest ---
Solar Fest 2025
October 4th , 2025
9AM to 1PM
The Greenline at Brooks
2532 Sidney Brooks St, San Antonio, TX 78235
Join us at this year’s Solar Fest! This free, fun, family-friendly festival is a wonderful opportunity to celebrate with the community. Enjoy a variety of activities and engaging experiences, including learning how to save energy and water, exploring solar power, discovering Electric Vehicles, and staying informed about our city’s local resiliency efforts. Don't miss out on this exciting event!

--- SOURCE: https://www.buildsagreen.org/solarfest-registration ---
Solar Fest 2025!
October 4th, 2025
9AM to 1PM
The Greenline at Brooks, 2532 Sidney Brooks St, San Antonio, TX 78235
Solar Fest is a free, fun, family-friendly festival that includes a variety of activities and engaging opportunities to learn how you can save energy & water, go solar and how to stay engaged with the city’s local resiliency efforts. There will be music, food, activities and more. We would love to include you in the Solar Fest fun!
If you are interested in sponsorship options or have any other questions, please contact Kaylyn Randolph at krandolph@buildsagreen.org.
If you are interested in being a vendor please complete the corresponding form below and complete payment through PayPal (payment option for commercial and artisan vendors only).
Sponsorship Opportunities
Megawatt Level- $2,500
- 10 x 20 Booth Space
- Website Listing with link
- Logo in all print and digital ads- Mentioned as sponsor on promos for event and in Press Release
- Prominent Logo Placement at event
- Dedicated Social Media Posts
- Logo recognition on Solar Fest T-shirt
Kilowatt Sponsor - $1,000
- 10 x 10 Booth Space
- Logo in all print and digital ads
- Logo recognition on T-shirt
- Social Media Recognition
