--- SOURCE: http://unitil.com/energy-efficiency/energy-efficiency-programs/natural-gas-programs-rebates-assistance ---
Take control of your energy use.
Energy-efficient construction, appliances and products add to your comfort, increase productivity and reduce your monthly energy costs.
Below you will find efficiency initiatives and rebates that can help make your home or business more environmentally and financially sound.
We are proud to be a part of
Mass Save®
Mass Save® is a collaborative of Massachusetts' electric and natural gas utilities and energy efficiency service providers. We empower residents, businesses, and communities to make energy efficient upgrades by offering a wide range of services, rebates, incentives, trainings, and information. Visit MassSave.com
NHSaves®
NHSaves is a collaboration of New Hampshire’s electric and natural gas utilities working together to provide NH customers with information, incentives, and support designed to save energy, reduce costs, and protect the environment. Visit NHSaves.com
Energy efficiency partners
Efficiency Maine
If you are a Maine natural gas customer, you are eligible to participate in Efficiency Maine programs that save energy and money. These programs also offer rebates for energy improvements. Visit EfficiencyMaine.com
ENERGY STAR®
We encourage our customers to use ENERGY STAR® certified products that use less energy than other brands. Take advantage of energy efficiency rebates, too. Find ENERGY STAR products.
Find Rebates & Savings Programs
Unitil works year-round with organizations in all of the states we serve to bring our customers new energy savings offers and solutions. Use the filters below to see which programs and rebates are available to you.
Select your customer type, state and service, and click on Show Results to view available options.

--- SOURCE: https://unitil.com/ways-to-save/rebates-incentives ---
Take control of your energy use.
Energy-efficient construction, appliances and products add to your comfort, increase productivity and reduce your monthly energy costs.
Below you will find efficiency initiatives and rebates that can help make your home or business more environmentally and financially sound.
We are proud to be a part of
Mass Save®
Mass Save® is a collaborative of Massachusetts' electric and natural gas utilities and energy efficiency service providers. We empower residents, businesses, and communities to make energy efficient upgrades by offering a wide range of services, rebates, incentives, trainings, and information. Visit MassSave.com
NHSaves®
NHSaves is a collaboration of New Hampshire’s electric and natural gas utilities working together to provide NH customers with information, incentives, and support designed to save energy, reduce costs, and protect the environment. Visit NHSaves.com
Energy efficiency partners
Efficiency Maine
If you are a Maine natural gas customer, you are eligible to participate in Efficiency Maine programs that save energy and money. These programs also offer rebates for energy improvements. Visit EfficiencyMaine.com
ENERGY STAR®
We encourage our customers to use ENERGY STAR® certified products that use less energy than other brands. Take advantage of energy efficiency rebates, too. Find ENERGY STAR products.
Find Rebates & Savings Programs
Unitil works year-round with organizations in all of the states we serve to bring our customers new energy savings offers and solutions. Use the filters below to see which programs and rebates are available to you.
Select your customer type, state and service, and click on Show Results to view available options.

--- SOURCE: https://unitil.com/ways-to-save/solar-private-generation ---
At Unitil, we believe reliable, affordable energy and environmental sustainability can — and should — go hand-in-hand. We also believe in customer choice, giving you more options and greater control. When you generate energy in parallel with our system, you are helping to support a grid that is more efficient, affordable and environmentally friendly for everyone. We have over 6,700 interconnections in our service territory — that’s a lot of customer-generated energy (about 40 percent of the total peak load, in fact!). This ever-evolving renewable grid is the future of energy, and we’re here to help advance it.
Steps to Interconnection
Start generating your own power
See how you can generate your own renewable energy in parallel with our electric system, which can lower your monthly bill.
Net Metering
How we credit your self-generation
Net metering is the process by which your electric bill reflects both the power you use and the power you generate.
Were you looking for backup generator safety?
Even though you’re not in the right spot, we’re sure glad you’re thinking about how to do it properly!
SMART Program
Ramping up solar development
With the support of Unitil and other participating electric utilities, Massachusetts is aiming to be the most energy-efficient state in the nation through initiatives like the SMART Program, which supports development of new solar projects.
Save the Planet, Save Money
Renewable energy isn’t just good for the environment — through interconnection, it’s good for your wallet, too.

--- SOURCE: https://unitil.com/blog/why-renewable-grid-important ---
Unitil’s mission is simple: to safely and reliably deliver energy for life and provide its customers with affordable and sustainable energy solutions. While increasing our use of renewable energy resources such as wind, solar, geothermal, and hydroelectric is beneficial to our customers, stakeholders, and the environment, its integration into the existing power grid is not without its challenges.
Finding a Balance
Striking a balance between environmentally friendly practices and reliable energy distribution requires forethought and planning on an unprecedented scale. Not only must grid operators find ways to measure the amount of renewable energy being generated at a particular time, but they must also be able to predict how much energy generation is expected in the future – and how to respond to inherent fluctuations.
How Does Renewable Energy Affect the Grid?
As more renewable sources of energy are incorporated into the grid, the challenge to predict and fulfill consumer needs becomes more and more complicated. For this reason, weather forecasting has become an important part of the equation, as a failure to remain flexible and responsive to variable conditions can result in power outages. For example, the energy generated by the sun may be sufficient to meet average daytime requirements, but what happens when the sun goes down, or demand for energy increases unpredictably?
Looking Ahead
Energy providers like Unitil are continually working to improve the reliability and efficiency of the grid in the face of climate change. Some of the steps utilities are taking include:
- Finding new ways to store energy for later use when generation exceeds current demand
- Building new transmission lines to connect areas where renewable resources are plentiful to areas with higher demand
- Combining different renewable sources of energy to even out generation so that the grid isn’t reliant on a single source
- Upgrading our metering infrastructure to enable time-based rate designs and new service offerings so that customers can benefit from their investments in clean energy, electric vehicles, and energy management technology
- Implementing state-of-the-art distribution initiatives to optimize system demand and resources
- Investing in gas distribution infrastructure to improve safety and minimize methane emissions
- Exploring opportunities to ensure sustainable gas supply even as we promote policies to expand clean energy options
As climate change continues to fuel fundamental changes in the energy sector, the architecture of the grid must advance – and do so reliably and affordably. The advanced grid of the future will provide consumers with greater control over their energy usage, enable distributed renewable energy resources, enhance system reliability, and advance system security. This top-to-bottom emphasis on sustainability is at the heart of everything we do to ensure long-term value for our customers, employees, investors, and stakeholders.
Did You Know? Renewable energy creates three times more jobs than fossil fuels.
Key Takeaways:
- Integrating renewable resources into the power grid is akin to making a one-way street into a superhighway interchange. Excess energy generated by solar and wind farms can be fed back into the main grid for distribution to where it’s needed most.
- The capacity of renewable energy sources relies heavily on weather, which can make reliability and stability a challenge for grid operators.
- The flexibility of the grid structure is key as we transition from a passive delivery system to a dynamic distribution model.

--- SOURCE: https://unitil.com/ways-to-save/solar-private-generation/steps-interconnection ---
Interconnection puts renewable energy generation in your hands.
Customers who generate more electricity than they need can push that electricity back out through their meters as a surplus.
Interested in installing a renewable energy system on your property? The interconnection process doesn’t have to be complicated. In six easy steps, you can complete, submit and finalize your application to enjoy the benefits of renewable energy generation.
To make the interconnection process easier, Unitil has an online application system that will determine which application is right for you. Familiarize yourself with the information on this page before beginning the application process.
Crucial:
It is very important you do not energize your system until you receive the approval to energize/interconnect your system. If you energize your system prior to Unitil changing your meter, your meter will register any surplus generation as load and you will be charged.
Start your online application →
If you’d like to send your application in writing, please mail it to:
Unitil
Attn. Generator Interconnections
30 Energy Way
Exeter, NH 03833
6 Steps to Easy Interconnection
Read through the steps below to understand the full process and when you are ready, you can start or resume your online application using your Interconnection Program Portal. Throughout your application process, you will be asked to submit supporting documentation when necessary. You may do so securely through your Interconnection Program Portal.
Here are a few things you and your contractor should know:
Requirements You Should Know
For a safe and efficient interconnection process, Unitil complies with requirements specified by the New England Independent System Operator (ISONE) and state agencies. To learn more about these requirements, and to discover if interconnection is right for you, check out the links below.
- MA Generator Interconnection Tariff (Massachusetts only)
- Wholesale Distribution Service for Standalone Energy Storage Systems (eligible Massachusetts customers only)
- NH DER Interconnection Standard (New Hampshire only)
- Unitil Guideline for Interconnecting Distributed Generation (GL-DT-TC-10)
- Unitil Metering Requirements
Newly required as of Oct. 1, 2023:
Resources for Successful Interconnection
State-Specific Resources
| All states | |
| Massachusetts | |
| New Hampshire |
|
Need Additional Help?
- Reach out to Unitil experts at generator@unitil.com or call us at 603-773-6480 to discuss your project further.
- Research your installation company. The Department of Public Utilities (Massachusetts customers) and the Public Utilities Commission (New Hampshire customers) are good resources for interconnection and net metering questions, and to confirm the legitimacy of a business.
- Get an electrical permit from your town. You may be required to obtain a building permit before or in addition to an electrical permit. Please contact your town or city hall for information.
Force Majeure Termination (MA)
Due to the then-developing COVID-19 crisis, on March 27, 2020 Fitchburg Gas & Electric Light Company d/b/a Unitil (“the Company”) determined the need to declare a COVID-19 Force Majeure Event (“Event”) pursuant to the “Standards for Interconnection of Distributed Generation”, MDPU No. 375 (“Tariff”) Section 3.7.1 This message is to apprise you that the Event will end on Thursday, May 11, 2023, to align with the end of the Massachusetts and federal COVID-19 public health emergencies (“Event Termination”).
Wholesale Distribution Service:
Unitil offers Wholesale Distribution Service to eligible Massachusetts electric customers who have a standalone energy storage system.
Unitil offers delivery service to standalone energy storage system customers that are interconnected to the Company's distribution system for the purpose of transacting in New England's wholesale electricity markets. Unitil's Wholesale Distribution Tariff provides a rate for distribution service applied to the charging load of the energy storage system, but as appropriate designates the provision of transmission service and energy supply to be from wholesale markets while exempting them from retail tariff energy supply, transmission charges and other state reconciling charges not applicable to wholesale transactions.
Getting Started:
The application link will be available shortly
- Review the Rates & Requirements: Read the Wholesale Distribution Service Tariff to understand the costs and terms.
- Review the Contract: See the Wholesale Distribution Service Agreement for legal conditions.
- Apply Early: Please submit your application well before you need service to begin. Download the application here (PDF).
Questions? Please contact our team at generator@unitil.com.
Save the Planet, Save Money
Renewable energy isn’t just good for the environment — through interconnection, it’s good for your wallet, too. Check out these blogs to learn more about this green initiative.
