--- SOURCE: http://wa-portangeles.civicplus.com/790/Residential-Conservation-Rebates ---
Authorized City Contractors
The City of Port Angeles has partnered with local contractors who are available for the installation of home improvement measures and some commercial measures. These independently licensed, bonded, and insured contractors have signed an agreement with the City covering installation of qualified energy efficiency measures such as new windows or heat pumps. Under the terms of the agreement, the contractor agrees to install the measures according to the City's Material and Installation Specifications, and the City pays the rebate directly to the contractor, reducing your upfront cost for the energy efficiency improvement.
City-Authorized Contractors can help you choose the product that is right for you and get the rebate process started. To learn more and view a complete list City-Authorized Contractors, please click here.
Other Ways to Conserve Energy in the Home
The average City of Port Angeles household uses 1440 kWh per month; the largest energy use in these homes is space heating. Making a few changes in the way you heat and use appliances in your home can make a difference in your monthly utility costs. Visit the links below to learn more.

--- SOURCE: https://www.cityofpa.us/1330/Heat-Pump-Rebates ---
Heat Pumps
You can save hundreds of dollars per year on your electric heating bills when you upgrade to an energy-efficient heating and cooling system. Upgrading is simple and affordable with utility incentives and tax credits available for qualified units. A new heat pump will not only save money, but allow your home to be more comfortable than ever. Air conditioning comes standard with heat pump systems, so you’ll be just as cool in the summer as you are cozy in the winter. And since these systems can improve air quality, you will enjoy clean, healthy air year-round.
To qualify for a rebate, the heat pump must be installed in an existing home that is electrically heated and installed in accordance with Air Source Heat Pump Installation Specifications. You must also be an electric utility customer of the City of Port Angeles. More information can be found in the Heat Pump Buyers Guide, which provides valuable information on how heat pumps work, and the economics of installing a heat pump.
Rebate Application, Guide and Specifications
- Heat Pump Rebate Application (PDF)
- Heat Pump Buyers Guide (PDF)
- Air Source Heat Pump Installation Specifications (PDF)
When you choose to upgrade your electric heating system to a heat pump, you have two energy-saving options:
A ductless heat pump that is powered by electricity is cheaper than other heating systems to install and operate. Ductless systems are easy to maintain, provide significant bill savings, improve air quality, and offer year-round comfort with a built-in air conditioner.
To get started, contact a City Authorized Contractor (PDF) for an assessment. The contractor can help you complete a Heat Pump Rebate Application (PDF) for submittal to the City. Weatherwise staff will review the application and issue a written Notice to Proceed, along with a Participation Statement informing you of the rebate amount and your final cost for the improvements. Please note that in order to qualify for a rebate, the City must provide advance written approval before work is performed.
- The standard rebate for qualifying DHP installation is $800.
- For qualifying low-income residents, the rebate is up to $6,000. Please visit our Free Weatherization Low Income Program webpage for more information on requirements to qualify.
Variable speed heat pumps are a great option for homeowners who already have an electric furnace or older less efficient heat pump. The new inverter-driven technology delivers heat to your home more efficiently than an electric furnace or conventional heat pump and will help lower your heating costs.
To get started, contact a City Authorized Contractor (PDF) for an assessment. The contractor can help you complete a Heat Pump Rebate Application (PDF) for submittal to the City. Weatherwise staff will review the application and issue a written Notice to Proceed, along with a Participation Statement informing you of the rebate amount and your final cost for the improvements. Please note that in order to qualify for a rebate, the City must provide advance written approval before work is performed.
Rebates for Variable Speed Heat Pumps are either $200 or $1,000 depending on your current heating system.
Contact us
We are here to help. Contact us if you aren’t sure where to start or have questions about our energy conservation programs. Our Energy Analyst can be reached via email at conservation@cityofpa.us, or via the Conservation Message Line: (360) 417-4713.

--- SOURCE: https://www.cityofpa.us/1331/Insulation-Rebates ---
Insulation Rebates
Increasing insulation levels in your home can make it more comfortable and reduce heating needs year-round. The City of Port Angeles offers rebates for upgrading thermal insulation levels in ceilings, floors, and walls of existing homes. Due to changes in technology and installation practices many homes may have opportunities to add insulation to your attic, walls, or floors.
In order to participate, your home must currently be served electricity by the City of Port Angeles and have any type of electric heating equipment capable of heating your building. This rebate is not available for new construction.
For more information on Insulation, click here Version Options Insulation Rebates Headline.
How to Apply
To get started, contact a City-Authorized Contractor (PDF) to assess the opportunities for improving insulation levels. The contractor can assist you when completing an Insulation Rebate Application (PDF) for submittal to the City. Weatherwise staff will review the application and issue a written Notice to Proceed, along with a Participation Statement informing you of the rebate amount and your final cost for the improvements.
Please note that in order to qualify for a rebate, the City must provide advance written approval before the work is performed.
Insulation rebates vary greatly based on how much insulation is currently installed and what the final R-value achieved. City-Authorized Contractors can help you decide what insulation measures work best for your home and provide an estimated rebate amount before applying.
Through the City's Low Income Program, qualifying rebates may cover up to 100%.
Contact Us
We are here to help. If you aren’t sure where to start or have questions about our energy conservation programs, contact our Energy Analyst via email at conservation@cityofpa.us, or by calling our Conservation Message Line at (360) 417-4713.

--- SOURCE: https://www.cityofpa.us/1332/Window-Rebates ---
Window Rebates
Windows can be one of your home’s most attractive features. Windows provide views, day lighting, ventilation, and solar heating in the winter. Upgrading your windows can limit cold drafts in your home, reduce condensation around window trim, and reduce the heating load for your home. And, new windows are far more energy-efficient than old windows.
If you’re thinking of replacing the windows in your home, the City of Port Angeles may be able to help with the rebates we offer. There are several options to consider when you shop for windows, most of which can significantly affect the cost.
Rebate Application and Guidance
- Window Rebate Application (PDF)
- Windows Buyer’s Guide (PDF)
- Material & Installation Specifications (PDF)
- City-Authorized Contractors (PDF)
How to Apply
To get started, contact a City-Authorized Contractor to schedule an assessment. The contractor will be able to assist in completing a Window Rebate Application for submittal to the City. Our Weatherwise staff will review the application and issue a written Notice to Proceed, along with a Participation Statement informing you of the rebate amount and your final cost for improvements.
Qualifying projects will replace either single pane or dual pane aluminum framed windows. In order to be eligible for the window upgrade incentives, the new windows must be a minimum of dual pane, vinyl framed and have a NFRC U-value of .30 or lower.
- The standard rebate for qualifying window upgrades is $6.00/square foot of glass.
- For qualifying low-income residents, the rebate is up to $20.00/square foot of glass. Please visit our Fee Weatherization Program Webpage to learn more.
Contact Us
We are here to help. If you aren’t sure where to start, or if you have any questions about our conservation programs, contact us! Our Energy Analyst can be reached via email at conservation@cityofpa.us or by calling our Conservation Message Line at (360) 417-4713.

--- SOURCE: https://www.cityofpa.us/807/Water-Conservation ---
Water usage can significantly impact your utility bill, especially during the summer months when watering gardens and plants. By being mindful of your water consumption during the summer and throughout the year, you can lower costs and conserve resources.
To help you save, the City of Port Angeles offers several incentives including free water-saving devices like low-flow showerheads, faucet aerators, and toilet tummies, as well as rebates on water conservation appliances such as rain barrels, irrigation timers, and high efficiency toilets.
Find out if you qualify for the following incentives:
We are here to help. If you aren't sure where to start or have questions about our energy and water conservation programs, please contact us. Our Energy Analyst can reached by email at conservation@cityofpa.us, or by calling our Conservation Message Line at (360) 417-4713.
