--- SOURCE: http://www.anaheim.net/3312/Public-EV-Charger-Rebate ---
- Home
- Departments
- Public Utilities
- Electric Services
- Electric Vehicles
- Commercial EV Programs
- Public EV Charger Rebate
Public Access EV Charger Rebates
Receive Up to $3,500 Per Charger for Public Access Locations
Receive Up to $7,500 Per Charger for Schools, Affordable Housing, and Publicly Accessible DC Fast Plug-in locations
Rebates are subject to fund availability.
Anaheim Public Utilities is oﬀering Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station rebates to commercial, industrial, and municipal customers who install Level 2 (240-Volt) or higher plug-in electric vehicle (EV) chargers at locations accessible to patrons, multi-family dwelling residents, commuters, and visitors.
Under this program, customers will be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses up to $3,500 per charging station for public access locations, or up to $7,500 for school, aﬀordable housing, or publicly accessible DC fast plug-in locations (maximum of 10 charging stations).
Eligible expenses include:
- Cost of the charger
- Cost of installation
Program participants who choose to install an associated sub-meter may receive up to $3,500. In addition, Anaheim Public Utilities will reimburse city plan check fees up to $1,500 for such participants.
Program Steps:
1. Review the Public Access EV Charging Station Rebate Reservation Form and Program Agreement Terms and Conditions (pages 3-4).
2. Complete the Reservation Form and email it to the program manager at [email protected].
Customers awarded a rebate will be emailed an approval letter and provided with a Rebate Reservation Number.
3. Contact Electrical Engineering at 714-765-5156 to inquire about EV charger installation requirements, after receiving the approval letter.
4. Obtain a permit for installation of your new charger(s) at:
200 South Anaheim Boulevard,
First Floor, Suite 145, Counter 1
Anaheim, CA 92805
If you have questions about the permitting process, please call Building Services at 714-765-5153.
5. Install your new EV charging station in accordance with the Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program Agreement within one (1) year of receiving your Rebate Reservation Number.
6. Complete the Agreement Form and submit supporting documents. Please carefully review the Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program Agreement before completing and submitting the form with all supporting documents.
Supporting documents include:
- EV Rebate Reservation Number
- All charging station purchase and installation receipts
- Copy of Building Department Permit Card showing final sign-off
- W-9 Form filled out by the customer receiving the rebate
- Current utility bill for the same address as the new sub-meter (if applicable)
Submit documents via email ([email protected]) or mail:
Public Access EV Charging Station Rebate Program
201 South Anaheim Boulevard, Suite 801
Anaheim, CA 92805
7. To assign the rebate to a third party, complete the Public Access EV Charger Rebate Assignment Form.
Contact Us
-
Commercial Rebates & Incentives
714-765-4250 or Email
ACH/Hearing Impaired
TDD: 714-765-5125Office:
Mon - Fri: 8 am - 5 pm
Anaheim West Tower
201 S. Anaheim Blvd.
Anaheim, CA 92805

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.anaheim.net/DocumentCenter/View/18907 ---
1 http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/cgi-bin/displaycode?section=hsc&group=50001-51000&file=50050-50106 
2 https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CFR-2000-title24-vol1/content-detail.html  
 
1216/1217/0818/0920/0221/0624/0825 
Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program 
Reservation Request Form 
 
 
 
The City of Anaheim (City) is offering rebates to commercial, industrial, institutional, and municipal customers who install Level 
2 or direct current (DC) fast plug-in electric vehicle (EV) charging stations in the common areas of multi-unit dwellings or other 
publicly accessible areas of their property. Customers who install new EV charging stations and comply with the Public Access 
Electric Vehicle (“EV”) Charging Station Rebate Program (“Program”) Agreement Terms and Conditions will be reimbursed for 
the actual cost of charging station equipment and installation expenses  which include 1) up to a maximum of $ 3,500 per 
charging station, 2) up to an $3,500 for costs associated with the installation of a sub-meter per site, and 3) up to an additional 
$1,500 for City plan check fees per site.  EV charging stations installed at schools recognized by the Orange County Department 
of Education or the Western Association of Schools and Colleges ; multi-unit dwelling locations serving income qualified 
customers as de fined by the State of California Health and Safety Code Sections 50052.5 and 50053 1 and/or the U.S. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations2; and publically accessible DC fast 
plug-in EV charging stations will be reimbursed for the actual cost of new charging station equipment and installation expenses, 
which include 1) up to $7,500 per charging station, 2) up to $3,500 for costs associated with the installation of a sub-meter per 
site, and 3) up to an additional $1,500 for City plan check fees per site. Total rebates, inclusive of EV charging station costs and 
associated installation costs, are capped at $25,000 per commercial customer and $40,000 per school or affordable housing 
multi-unit dwelling locations. Program funding is limited, and each customer may receive rebates for up to ten (10) charging 
stations per year. 
   
• Please read the Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program Agreement Terms and Conditions located 
on the City’s website carefully before filling out this Reservation Request. 
• Check the option that applies to you 
Requesting additional rebate for costs associated with the installation of a sub-meter per site. 
Not requesting additional rebate for costs associated with the installation of a sub-meter per site (by foregoing 
this rebate, customer may retain Low Carbon Fuel Standard credits, however the Customer will be unable to 
participate in EV Time-of-Use rates, until a sub-meter has been installed). 
 
Fill out and submit this Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program Reservation Request Form for each 
charging station location to: EVRebates@anaheim.net;  OR  Mail to: Anaheim Public Utilities, Public Access EV 
Charging Station Rebate Program, 201 South Anaheim Blvd., Suite 801, Anaheim, CA 92805    
• Once your Reservation Request has been approved, the Program Manager will return a copy of this Form with your 
Rebate Reservation Number listed at the bottom of this Form, which must be included with your signed Public Access EV 
Charging Station Rebate Program Agreement. 
• Customer must have a signed contract or proposal to install EV charging stations at the time of submitting the 
Reservation Request, otherwise the Reservation Request will not be accepted. 
• If you have any questions, please contact the Program Manager at 714.765.4952 or EVRebates@anaheim.net  
• Program funds are limited and subject to available funding. 
 
 
Name Listed on Customer Account: 
 
Customer Contact Name: Customer Email Address: 
Customer Daytime Phone Number(s):  Customer Mailing Address: Number of Charging Ports: 
 
Charging Station Address #1 (if different from above): 
 
Anaheim Electric Account Number: 
Charging Station Address #2: Anaheim Electric Account Number: 
Charging Station Address #3: Anaheim Electric Account Number: 
Charging Station Address #4: (Please use additional sheets if applying for additional rebates) Anaheim Electric Account Number: 
Description of Public Access (Check all that apply)  
    a. Retail              b. Multi-unit Dwelling (MUD)             c. Workplace               d. School or Income Qualified MUDs               e. Public Parking         f. other 
Contractor Name:  Contractor Mailing Address: Contractor Daytime Phone Number(s): 
 
Customer Signature: 
  
 
 
Rebate Reservation Number: Approval Date: Approved By: 
Rebate Expiration Date: Notes: 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REBATE RESERVATION REQUEST: 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION 
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY 

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.anaheim.net/DocumentCenter/View/18908 ---
1216/1217/0919/0920/0321/0624/0825 
Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate 
Program Agreement 
The City of Anaheim (City) is offering rebates to commercial, industrial, institutional, and municipal customers who install 
Level 2 or direct current (DC) fast plug-in electric vehicle (EV) charging stations in the common areas of multi-unit dwellings 
or other publicly accessible areas of their property. Customers who install new EV charging stations and comply with the 
Public Access Electric Vehicle (“EV”) Charging Station Rebate Program (“Program”) Agreement Terms and Conditions will 
be reimbursed for th e actual cost of charging station equipment and installation expenses which include 1) up to a 
maximum of $3,500 per charging station, 2) up to $3,500 for costs associated with the installation of a sub-meter per site, 
and 3) up to an additional $1,500 for City plan check fees per site.  EV charging stations installed at schools recognized by  
the Orange County Department of Education or the Western As sociation of Schools and Colleges; multi -unit dwelling 
locations serving income qualified customers as defined by the State of California Health and Safety Code Sections 50052.5 
and 500531 and/or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations2; 
and publicly accessible DC fast plug-in EV charging stations will be reimbursed for the actual cost of new charging station 
equipment and installation expenses, which include 1) up to $ 7,500 per charging station, 2) up to $3,500 for costs 
associated with the installation of a sub-meter per site, and 3) up to an additional $1,500 for City plan check fees per site. 
Total rebates, inclusive of EV charging station costs and associated installation costs, are capped at $25,000 per commercial 
customer and $40,000 per school or affordable housing multi-unit dwelling locations. Program funding is limited, and each 
customer may receive rebates for up to ten (10) charging stations per year. 
 
Fill out one Agreement for all charging station locations and attach all of the following required documents: 
Rebate Reservation Receipt Number: ______________      
All charging station equipment and installation invoices  
City plan check invoices 
  A copy of the final and signed City building permit job card  
  W-9 Form filled out by the Customer receiving the Rebate 
  Current Utilities bill for the same service address as the new sub-meter 
Check this box if you are requesting the additional rebate of up to $3,500 for costs associated with the installation of 
a sub-meter per site. 
Submit the documents to: EVRebates@anaheim.net 
Or mail to: Anaheim Public Utilities  
Public Access EV Charging Station Rebate Program 
201 South Anaheim Blvd., Suite 801 
Anaheim, CA 92805 
If you have any questions, please contact the Program Manager at 714.765.4952 or EVRebates@anaheim.net 
Name Listed on Account: Contact Name:  Email Address: 
Daytime Phone Number(s): Mailing Address: Number of Existing Charging Stations: 
Charging Station Make and Model: Charging Station Address #1 (if different from above): 
Charging Station Purpose Description of Public Access (Check all that apply) :  a. Retail b. Multi-unit Dwelling (MUD)
 c. Workplace d. School or Income Qualified MUDs  e. Public Parking  f. Other
EV Charger In-Service Date: Number of Charging Stations 
Installed: 
Number of Parking Spaces per EV 
Charger: 
Charging Station Serial Number(s) Serial Number (Single Pedestal or Dual Pedestal Left 
Handle): 
Serial Number (Dual Pedestal Right Handle): 
(A) Total Cost of Charging Station(s): (B) Other Incentives and/or Tax Credits Expected or
Received:
Rebate Request (A – B = Rebate Request): 
REBATE DOCUMENTATION SUPPORT: 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION
CHARGING STATION INFORMATION 4 
1216/1217/0919/0920/0321/0624/0825 
 
Charging Station Make and Model: Charging Station Address #2: 
Charging Station Purpose Description of Public Access (Check all that apply) :      a. Retail  b. Multi -unit Dwelling (MUD)
 c. Workplace d. School or Income Qualified MUDs  e. Public Parking  f. Other
EV Charger In-Service Date: Number of Charging Stations 
Installed: 
Number of Parking Spaces per EV 
Charger: 
Charging Station Serial Number(s) Serial Number (Single Pedestal or Dual Pedestal Left 
Handle): 
Serial Number (Dual Pedestal Right Handle): 
(A) Total Cost of Charging Station(s): (B) Other Incentives and/or Tax Credits Expected or
Received:
Rebate Request (A – B = Rebate Request): 
Charging Station Make and Model: Charging Station Address #3: 
Charging Station Purpose Description of Public Access (Check all that apply) :      a. Retail  b. Multi -unit Dwelling (MUD)
 c. Workplace d. School or Income Qualified MUDs  e. Public Parking  f. Other
EV Charger In-service Date: Number of Charging Stations 
Installed: 
Number of Parking Spaces per EV 
Charger: 
Charging Station Serial Number(s) Serial Number (Single Pedestal or Dual Pedestal Left 
Handle): 
Serial Number (Dual Pedestal Right Handle): 
(A) Total Cost of Charging Station(s): (B) Other Incentives and/or Tax Credits Expected or
Received:
Rebate Request (A – B = Rebate Request): 
Charging Station Make and Model: Charging Station Address #4: 
Charging Station Purpose Description of Public Access (Check all that apply) :      a. Retail  b. Multi -unit Dwelling (MUD)
 c. Workplace d. School or Income Qualified MUDs  e. Public Parking  f. Other
EV Charger In-Service Date: Number of Charging Stations 
Installed: 
Number of Parking Spaces per EV 
Charger: 
Charging Station Serial Number(s) Serial Number (Single Pedestal or Dual Pedestal Left 
Handle): 
Serial Number (Dual Pedestal Right Handle): 
(A) Total Cost of Charging Station(s): (B) Other Incentives and/or Tax Credits Expected or
Received:
Rebate Request (A – B = Rebate Request): 
 
I certify that I am authorized to sign the Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging Rebate Program Agreement (Agreement) on 
behalf of Customer listed above.  I certify that the information on this Agreement is true and correct.  I understand and 
agree to the attached Program Terms and Conditions.  I acknowledge that this Agreement is a public document.  
Customer Signature ____________________________________________ Date ____________________________ 
Print Name                ____________________________________________ Title ____________________________ 
 
  
CUSTOMER SIGNATURE 
1 http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/cgi-bin/displaycode?section=hsc&group=50001-51000&file=50050-50106 
2 https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CFR-2000-title24-vol1/content-detail.html 
3 If space is insufficient, please attach additional documentation or use reverse side.   
CHARGING STATION INFORMATION (Continued) 3 

1216/1217/0919/0920/0321/0624/0825 
PUBLIC ACCESS ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION REBATE PROGRAM 
AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
1. CONDITION OF REBATE:  The Public Access Electric Vehicle (“EV”) Charging Station Rebate Program (“Program”) offer to Customer 
is subject to available funding and the terms and conditions contained herein.  Customer’s acceptance of the rebate payment (“Rebate”) 
from the City of Anaheim (“City”) shall constitute the Customer’s acceptance of these terms and conditions and consideration by both 
parties to form a binding agreement. No changes to the terms and conditions or the Program, shall be binding unless agreed to in writing.  
Customer must receive a Rebate Reservation Request Number on a copy of the Public Access EV Charging Station Rebate Program 
Reservation Request form from the EV Program Manager to include on the signed Public Access EV Charging Station Rebate Program 
Agreement prior to commencing installation of the EV Charging Station. 
2. PURPOSE:  The purpose of the Program is to provide an incentive to non -domestic (commercial, industrial, etc.) electric customers 
located within the City, in the form of the Rebate, to install, operate, and maintain public access EV charging stations within the City and 
make such EV charging stations available to the general public, students, patrons, employees, or residents to charge EVs. 
3. REBATE:  The Rebate is for the reimbursement of actual expenses incurred for new EV charging station equipment and installation 
costs, less any other rebates or tax credits received, or expected to be received, from third-parties or agencies for the same EV charging 
station. The Rebate shall be for actual expenses, as documented with receipts submitted with the Public Access Electric Vehicle Charging 
Station Rebate Program Agreement (“Agreement”), less other rebates and/or credits expected or received fo r the same EV charging 
station; provided however, such Rebate is for commercial, industrial, institutional, and municipal customers who install Level 2 or direct 
current (DC) fast plug-in EV changing stations in the common areas of multi -unit dwellings or publicly accessible areas of their property 
and includes either: 1a) up to a maximum of $3,500 per charging station, 1b) up to $ 3,500 for costs associated with the installation of a 
sub-meter per site, and 1c) up to an additional $1,500 for City plan check  fees per site; or 2) EV charging stations installed at schools 
recognized by the Orange County Department of Education or the Western Association of Schools and Colleges; multi -unit dwelling 
locations serving income qualified customers as defined by the State of California Health and Safety Code Sections 50052.5 and 500531 
and/or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations; and publicly accessible DC 
fast plug-in EV charging stations will be reimbursed for the actual cost of new charging station equipment and installation expenses, which 
include 2a) up to $7,500 per charging station, 2b) up to $3,500 for costs associated with the installation of a sub-meter per site, and 2c) 
up to an additional $1,500 for City plan check fees per site. Total rebates, inclusive of EV charging station costs and associated installation 
costs, are capped at $25,000 per commercial customer and $40,000 per school or affordable housing multi -unit dwelling locations. 
Customer is eligible to receive rebates for a maximum of ten (10) EV charging station s per customer per year. Common infrastructure 
costs per location may be allocated on a pro-rata basis for up to ten (10) EV charging stations. Customer is solely responsible to pay any 
contractors or sub-contractors for the construction of the EV charging stations.  If Customer does not comply with any term or condition 
under the Agreement for a period of five (5) years from the date of the EV charging station installation, then the Rebate, in the sole 
discretion of the City, is subject to a pro -rata refund by Customer based on the number of years the EV charging station was in service. 
Customer acknowledges that any approved Rebate may be c redited towards any delinquent electric utility bill account for which the 
Customer is responsible, whether the account is open or closed. 
4. PROGRAM SUBJECT TO AVAILABLE FUNDING:  Program funds are limited and Rebates are not guaranteed; therefore, there is a 
Program application process that the Customer must timely comply with in order to reserve funds for a Customer Rebate.  Rebates will 
be awarded utilizing an electronic lottery process if the total number of applications received during the open application window exceeds 
the Program funding. The Program may be modified without prior notice and may be terminated when Program goals are met or funds 
are exhausted, whichever comes first.  
5. REBATE PROGRAM AGREEMENT:  A fully executed Agreement and all required documents shall be submitted by the Customer to 
the City by the Rebate Expiration Date  specified on the Rebate Reservation Request form .  Only original signed Agreements will be 
accepted. Incomplete Agreements, including but not limited to, missing documentation or those that do not meet the Program criteria will 
not be considered for the Rebate. The City is not responsible for reservatio ns, documents, and/or Agreements lost or destro yed in the 
mail or misdirected. Submitted reservation forms, Agreements, and accompanying documentation become the property of the City upon 
submission and are subject to the California Public Records Act. It is the Customer's responsibility to manage the installation contractor(s) 
and ensure that the EV charging station(s) are completed and properly installed in a timely manner and all documents are provided to the 
City for final processing of the Rebate.  
6. CUSTOMER AND CHARGING STATION ELIGIBILITY:  Only active City Customers taking electric service under a non -domestic 
(commercial, industrial, etc.) tariff with electric accounts that are in good standing  are eligible to participate in the Program. Only EV 
charging stations that i) comply with the Program purpose, as referenced in Paragraph 2 above and ii) are installed after the  Rebate 
Reservation Approval Date shall be eligible to receive a Rebate.  
7. CHARGING EQUIPMENT:  All EV charging station equipment must be a minimum of Level 2, include a manufacturer’s warranty of at 
least one (1) year, and be UL listed (certified by UL LLC). EV charging units shall not qualify for a Program Rebate if they are resale units, 
leased, rebuilt, rented, received from warranty insurance claims, won as a prize, or contain new parts installed in existing units. EV  
charging units must utilize the standard J1772 charging port, the standard J1772 combo charging port, the CHAdeMO charging port, or 
an approved equivalent as determined by the City to be eligible for the Program Rebate.  
8. POWER RESPONSIBILITY:  Customer shall purchase all power required to operate the EV charging station from the City under 
published non-domestic tariffs.  
9. ENERGY USAGE DATA:  As a condition of accepting the up to $3,500 for costs associated with the installation of a sub -meter per 
site, Customer shall provide a utility grade electric meter socket for the City to meter the energy usage of the EV charging stat ion. Such 
meter socket shall conform to City specifications, shall be a sub-meter to the main premises electric meter, and installed at a City approved 
location. Customer shall be responsible to ensure that the sub -meter shall only capture the EV chargi ng consumption data pursuant to 
the Program Rebate, and that no other electrical devises or uses requiring electricity will be measured by the sub -meter. Customer 
acknowledges that the City shall, in its sole discretion, have the right to utilize the energy usage data of the EV charging station for any 
and all purposes, including but not limited to obtaining and owning California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“ LCFS”) credits, improving 
 
1216/1217/0919/0920/0321/0624/0825 
services, conducting studies, and improving City operations. Customer hereby acknowledges and authorizes the City to use and provide 
such data to third parties for research and grant purposes and/or as required by law. Customer agrees to provide the City with access to 
non-personally identifiable information in connection with end -user transactions including, but not limited to, the duration of each EV 
charge, rate, cost, and load.  Customer further agrees to cooperate with the City and take all necessary actions to cause Customer’s EV 
charging network provider(s), operator(s), and/or other third parties, as applicable, to allow access to or provide to the Ci ty the 
aforementioned non-personally identifiable information in connection with end-user transactions, including the execution of data release 
agreement(s) as may be required by such network provider(s), operator(s), and/or third parties, as applicable. The City may c ollect or 
receive this data directly from Customer or Customer’s EV charging network pro vider(s), operator(s), and/or third parties, as applicable. 
By foregoing the rebate of up to $3,500 for costs associated with the installation of a sub-meter per site, Customer has the option to retain 
the LCFS credits.  Customer is unable to participate in the Developmental Schedule D-EV-2 (Developmental Non-Domestic Electric 
Vehicles) rate or successor rate(s), unless and until a sub-meter is installed. 
10. CUSTOMER RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTRACTOR:  It shall be the Customer's sole responsibility to hire a contractor that is licensed 
and in good standing with the State of California. Customer is also responsible for ensuring that contractor performance and all 
requirements hereunder are satisfied.  The City does not endorse or preapprove any vendor or contractor, therefore, any such 
representations are false.  
11. INSPECTION:  In addition to any inspections required pursuant to any City building permits, Anaheim Public Utilities has the right to 
conduct an on-site inspection to verify that all conditions of the Program are satisfied prior to awarding a Rebate. Customer agrees to 
provide City representatives reasonable access to the installation location/site during normal business hours. Customer understands that 
the Rebate will not be awarded if access is not granted.  
12. RULES AND LAWS GOVERNING AGREEMENT AND INTERPRETATION: This Agreement shall be administered and interpreted 
under the laws of the State of California and subject to the City's Electric Rates, Rules and Regulations. Any term not defined herein shall 
have the meaning set forth in the Electric Rates, Rules and Regulations. Implementation and management of the Program are in the sole 
discretion of the City.  
13. PAYMENT:  The Rebate will be awarded only upon receipt of all items listed on the Agreement and satisfactory inspection of the 
installation by the City.  
14. HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION:  Upon acceptance of the Rebate, Customer hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, and 
hold harmless the City (including its elected and appointed officials, officers, and employees) for and from any and all claims or actions of 
any kind presented against the City arising out of Customer’s (including Customer’s employees, representatives, agents, contractors, and 
sub-contractors) performance under this Agreement, excepting only such claims, co sts, or liability which may aris e out of  the sole 
negligence of the City. Further, the City makes no warranty and is not responsible for any representations, whether expressed or implied, 
including, but not limited to, the warranty of merchantability, fitness, performance, and longevity for any part icular purpose, use, or 
application of the item(s) or measure(s), manufacturers, dealers, contractors, or any other third parties, materials, workman ship, the 
quality, safety and/or installation of the item(s) or measure(s), effects on pollutan ts or any other matter with respect to the Program. 
Moreover, the City shall not be responsible for workmanship including, but not limited to, quality of EV equipment installati on or the 
installer’s failure to comply with applicable laws and/or safety standards.  
15. PERMITS:  Customer shall obtain and comply with all permits required by the City, County of Orange, State of California, property 
owner, and/or homeowner association requirements regarding local conditions, restrictions, codes, rules, and regulations for, among other 
things, the installation of the EV charging equipment, parking space striping, and signage. Customer shall obtain such permits prior to 
installing the EV charging station equipment. The City building permit final and signed date must be on or before the Rebate Expiration 
Date.  
16. MAINTENANCE: Customer agrees to maintain including, but not limited to, repair and maintenance of the EV charging station 
equipment to ensure it is in proper working condition. Maintenance includes cleaning EV charging station connectors, testing the charging 
voltage level, testing communication system functionality, and related minor work, as reasonably determined by City, to preserve the 
unimpaired function of the EV charging station. Customer is responsible, at his/her/its sole cost and expense, for all actions related to the 
repair and replacement the EV charging station, including making arrangements for manufacturer warranty service. Customer agrees that 
the facilities in which the EV charging station is located will be clean and in good repair.  
17. ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS:  In consideration of Customer’s receipt of the Rebate, Customer hereby assigns, transfers, and 
conveys to the City, without limitation, any and all environmental benefits associated with or attributable to the EV charging station, energy 
usage, and/or energy usage data, including, but not limited to, the associated California Low Carbon Fuel Standard Credits or successor 
credits. Customer shall ensure that Customer’s EV charging network provider(s), operator(s), and/or other third parties, as applicable , 
shall not claim or attempt to claim LCFS credits and/or any other environmental attributes associated with the electricity con sumed as 
part of the Program EV charging station(s).   A Customer that has not accepted the rebate of up to $5,000 for costs associated with the 
installation of a sub-meter per site and opts to retain the LCFS credits is not assigning his/her/its LCFS credits to the City. 
18. PARKING SPACE:   Customer shall make at least one (1) parking space available per rebated EV charging station. Customer shall 
install signage giving priority, but not exclusive, parking to EV charging station users; provided however, such EV charging station spaces 
may be used by non-EV users if all other parking spaces are occupied. 
19. RIGHT TO INTERRUPT SERVICE:  As a condition of the Rebate, Customer agrees to grant the City the right to remotely or manually 
interrupt electric service to the EV charging station in the event of a generation capacity shortage or a transmission or distribution system 
emergency.  
20. PUBLICATION:  Customer authorizes the City to publish information about the Customer’s publicly available EV charging station in 
any and all publications including, but not limited to, websites and applications. 
21. SEVERABILITY:  If a court of competent jurisdiction determines this Agreement or any provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, 
or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement that is not affected shall be valid, legal, and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted 
by law.  
1216/1217/0919/0920/0321/0624/0825 
 

--- SOURCE (PDF): https://www.anaheim.net/DocumentCenter/View/14112/Public-Access-EV-Charger-Rebate-Assignment-Form ---
LETTER OF ASSIGNMENT – ANAHEIM PUBLIC ACCESS EV CHARGER REBATE PR OGRAM 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
Date: 
 
 
Address: 
 
 
 
 
To: A naheim Public Utilities 
201 S. Anaheim Boulevard 
Suite 801 
Anaheim, California  92805 
 
Attention: A naheim Public Access EV Charger Rebate Progra m Manager 
 
Subject: Assignment of Public Access EV Charger Rebate  
 
Rebate Reservation Request Number:   
 
Amount of Rebate: 
 
Please deliver the above referenced Public Access EV Charger Program Rebate to: 
 
 
 
 
Company Name:    
 
Address: 
 
City/State/Zip:    
 
Contact: 
 
 
 
 
I have chosen to assign the Rebate payment to offset the total installed cost of the 
Public Access EV Charger Program under the referenced Reservation Number. 
 
Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
 
 
 
 
Signature:    

--- SOURCE: https://www.anaheim.net/593/Private-EV-Charger-Rebate ---
- Home
- Departments
- Public Utilities
- Electric Services
- Electric Vehicles
- Residential EV Programs
- Private EV Charger Rebate
Private Use EV Charger Rebate
Receive up to $300 or $600
Rebates are subject to fund availability.
Anaheim Public Utilities offers a rebate to customers who install a Level 2 plug-in Electric Vehicle (EV) Charger at their home or business.
1. Up to $300 for a Level 2 EV charger
2. Up to $600 for a networked charger and the customer must sign up for a time-of-use rate (TOU)
See the TOU Rates page for rates.
Eligible expenses for reimbursement include:
- Cost of the charger
- Cost of installation (Material receipts are not eligible for reimbursement)
- Upgrades needed to accommodate the charger
- City permit fees for the EV charger
Plug-In Electric Vehicle Charger Rebate Program Steps
- Obtain an Anaheim building permit for the installation of your new EV charger. For questions about the permitting process, call Anaheim Building Services at 714-765-5153
- New residential developments may be 'EV Ready' or 'EV Capable,' meaning the space meets building code requirements for the future installation of electric vehicle supply equipment.
- A resident can move into a new development that is 'EV Ready,' but this doesn't necessarily mean the parking space comes with the actual EV charging equipment.
- When the resident installs the level 2 EV charging equipment, they will need to attain a permit for the hardware.
- To qualify for the EV rebate for level 2 chargers, residents must attain a permit for the EV charging station. Anaheim Municipal Code Section 15.05.040 requires each EV charging station to be issued a permit.
2. Install your EV charger in accordance with building codes.
3. Complete the online application.
For questions, call 714-765-4250 or email [email protected].
Required documents include:
- All charging station purchase and installation receipts
- Copy of Building Department Permit Card showing final sign-off
- Copy of your Anaheim Public Utilities bill
- Photo of the installed EV charging station
- Photo of the serial number on your charger
- Anaheim Public Utilities does not warrant, endorse or assume liability for the quality, performance or safety of the Customer selected contractor and/or retailer or wholesaler. Performance of any product and acceptance of materials used is solely the customer’s responsibility.
- Applicant agrees that any incentive may be credited towards any delinquent (as currently defined in the City of Anaheim Rates, Rules and Regulations) utility bill(s) for which the customer is responsible, whether the account(s) is open or closed.
- Applicant is responsible for obtaining all required permits from the City of Anaheim.
- Applicant must receive electric service from Anaheim Public Utilities.
- Applicant must submit all required documents listed..
- Applicant understands and agrees that Anaheim Public Utilities may inspect the installed EV charger before the incentive is paid.
- Maximum of 1 EV charger rebate per customer.
Prior to installation, the applicant is responsible for meeting all Program requirements and for checking with state, county, or city governments and homeowner’s associations (if any) regarding: Codes,Conditions, Ordinances, Restrictions, Rules and regulations
- The EV charger must be installed within Anaheim Public Utilities service area.
Contact Us
-
Residential Rebates & Incentives
714-765-4250 or Email
ACH/Hearing Impaired
TDD: 714-765-5125Office:
Mon - Fri: 8 am - 5 pm
Anaheim West Tower
201 S. Anaheim Blvd.
Anaheim, CA 92805
